PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

NATIONAL  HYDROGRAPHIC
 ACT, No. 7 OF 2024

[Certified on 01st of  February, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 02, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 72.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

1

[Certified on 01st of February, 2024]

L.D. – O. 36/2023

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISIONS FOR GIVING EFECT TO CERTAIN SPECIFIC
OBLIGATIONS  OF  SRI  LANKA  UNDER  THE  INTERNATIONAL
CONVENTION FOR THE SAFETY OF LIFE AT SEA 1974; FOR THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL HYDROGRAPHIC OFFICE; FOR
THE  REGISTRATION  OF  HYDROGRAPHIC  SURVEYORS  AND
NAUTICAL  CARTOGRAPERS;  AND  FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTIAL THERETO .

WHEREAS an International Convention for the Safety of
Life at Sea, 1974 was adopted by the Inter national Conference
on Safety of Life at Sea on November 1, 1974 and entered into
force  on  May  25,  1980  (in  this  Act  referred  to  as  the
“Convention”):

Preamble

AND WHEREAS the Government of Sri Lanka acceded to
the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea,
1974 on August 30, 1983:

AND  WHEREAS  although  the  Merchant  Shipping
Act, No. 52 of 1971 as amended by Act, No. 17 of 2019 has
already given effect to the International Convention for the
Safety of Life at Sea, 1974, it is necessary to make specific
legal provisions to give effect to Sri Lanka’s obligations in
relation to Regulations 4 and 9 of Chapter V of the aforesaid
Convention:

NOW THEREFORE, be it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.  (1) This Act may be cited as the National Hydrographic

Act, No. 7 of  2024.

Short  title  and
date  of
operation

(2) The  provisions  of  this Act  other  than  this  section
shall come into operation on such date as the Minister may
appoint by Order published in the Gazette.

(3) The  provisions  of  this  section  shall  come  into
operation on the date on which the Bill becomes an Act of
Parliament.

2

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

PART I

E STABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL HYDROGRAPHIC OFFICE

Establishment
of  the
National
Hydrographic
Office

2. (1) There shall be established an Office which shall be

called  and  known  as  the  National  Hydrographic  Office

(hereinafter referred to as the “Office”).

(2)  The  Office  shall,  by  the  name  assigned  to  it  by

subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual

succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in

such name.

Objects  of
the  Office

3. The objects of the Office shall be –

(a)

to  be  responsible  for  the  provision  of

hydrographic  services  required  by  the

Convention;

(b)

to produce and maintain accurate nautical

charts for the safe navigation of ships and

to provide information about water depths,

underwater  features,  coastlines,  hazards

and aids to navigation;

(c)

to collect data for updating and improving

nautical charts and ensure maritime safety;

(d)

to establish and maintain aids to navigation

and  to  help  mariners  to  determine  their

positions  and  navigate  safely,  especially

in challenging conditions; and

(e)

to 

improve  hydrographic  survey

techniques, data processing methods and

technologies used in the field.

Powers,
duties  and
functions
of  the
Office

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

3

4. The powers, duties and functions of the Office shall

be –

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

to collect, preserve, regulate and compile
marine geospatial data for the purpose of
preparation, distribution, sale and updating
of  all  types  of  navigational  charts,
publications and hygrographic services;

to publish all types of navigational charts
required  for  the  safe  navigation  in  the
maritime zones of Sri Lanka;

to  carry  out  hydrographic  surveying  of
maritime zones of Sri Lanka;

to keep all maritime data which may have
an impact on confidentiality and safety of
national and regional security:

Provided that, the Office shall obtain the
concurrence  of  the  Secretary  to  the
Ministry  of  the  Minister  assigned  the
subject  of  Defence  before  publishing  or
disseminating any such data which may in
its opinion have a bearing on the national
security;

(e)  to  ensure  the  safety  of  international

shipping  –

(i)

to  carry  out  adequate  surveying  in
accordance  with  international  hydro-
graphic  standards  and  specifications
adopted by Sri Lanka;

(ii)   to publish such specifications by way
of  notifications  published  in  the
Gazette;

4

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

(iii) to prepare and issue nautical charts and
nautical  publications  which  include
lighthouses,  obelisks,
routes, 
identification of all types of buoys and
beacons  and  all  information  of  tidal
data  in  accordance  with  accepted
international  standards;

(iv) to prepare and issue notices to mariners
containing  information  on  maritime
accidents and to assist in the rescue of
any person who has encountered with
such accident; and

(v)  to  issue  instructions  regarding  the
updated printed and electronic nautical
charts and publications;

to  maintain  nautical  charts  and  publi-
cations  in  accordance  with  international
conventions  and  standards;

to  provide  accurate  and  reliable
hydrographic and navigational information
related to the maritime zones of Sri Lanka;

to  conduct  training  on  hydrographic
surveying  and  nautical  cartography  in
accordance with international conventions
and  standards;

to monitor, record and prepare reports on
tides in the coastal zone and to publish the
same  in  order  to  ensure  safety  and  other
navigational requirements in the maritime
zones of Sri Lanka;

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

5

(j)

(k)

to  collect,  regulate,  issue,  preserve  and
maintain  all  hydrographic  survey  data,
marine data and hydrospatial data as may
be prescribed;

to provide necessary assistance subject to
the  relevant  written  laws  to  any  agency,
institution  or  organization  engaged  in
following activities: -

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

coastal  management 
development;

and

conducting  feasibility  studies  and
assessments,  dredging  operations,
maintenance  and  development  of
port facilities;

coastal  erosion  monitoring  and
controlling;

land reclamation from sea and the
establishment  of  disposal  sites  at
sea  for  industrial  wastes  and  the
monitoring of the same;

conducting  research  and  develop
aquatic  resources;

implementing any project in cargo
and  passenger  transport  in  coastal
waters;

(vii)

i m p l e m e n t ing  i n f r a s t r u c t u r e
construction, development and any
other project in coastal waters;

(viii) promoting tourism and recreational
activities in coastal zones; or

6

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

(l)

(m)

(n)

(o)

(p)

(q)

(ix)

engaging  in  marine  pollution
prevention 
disaster
management;

and 

to assist and provide advice in respect of
maritime  boundary  demarcation  in  the
waters of Sri Lanka;

to  provide  necessary  consultancy  and
other  assistance  for  the  development
activities  including  laying  of  pipelines,
undersea cable systems and establishment
of mineral extraction wells and to preserve
data  and  information  regarding  such
activities;

to  coordinate  with  other  educational
institutions  engaged  in  the  hydrographic
and marine geospatial information in the
waters of Sri Lanka to maintain prescribed
educational  standards;

to coordinate with other institutions within
or  outside  Sri  Lanka  to  maintain  high
professional standards in hydrography;

to  conduct  higher  educational  training
related  to  hydrographic  surveying  and
nautical  cartography  and  to  obtain
necessary  technical  and  professional
training  with  the  assistance  of  foreign
institutions having expertise in the relevant
fields;

to  assist  relevant  authorities  to  enhance
safety  in  navigation  in  the  waters  of
Sri  Lanka  and  to  provide  necessary
assistance to those authorities to manage
economic  activities  in  the  waters  of  Sri
Lanka;

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

7

(r)

to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash
or kind:

Provided  however,  the  Office  shall
obtain  the  prior  written  approval  of  the
Department of External Resources of the
Ministry  of  the  Minister  assigned  the
subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign
grants,  gifts  or  donations  made  to  the
Office;

to open, maintain and operate any account
with any bank as it may think appropriate;

to manage, control, administer and operate
the Fund of the Office;

to invest such amount of money belonging
to the Office as is not immediately required
for the purposes of this Act;

to purchase, hold, take or give on lease or
hire,  mortgage,  pledge,  sell  or  otherwise
dispose  of  any  movable  or  immovable
property;

to enter into and perform either directly or
indirectly through any authorized officer
or agent of the Office, all such contracts or
agreements  as  may  be  necessary,  for  the
exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions;

to  make  rules  in  respect  of  the
administration of the affairs of the Office;

to  levy  fees  or  charges  for  any  service
rendered by the Office;

(s)

(t)

(u)

(v)

(w)

(x)

(y)

8

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

(z)

to appoint, employ, remunerate, exercise
disciplinary  control  or  dismiss  such
officers, employees and agents as may be
necessary for the carrying out of the objects
of the Office;

(aa)

to  provide  training  to  officers  and
employees of the Office within or outside
Sri Lanka;

(bb)

to  appoint  committees  for  the  effective
discharge of its functions; and

(cc)

to do all such other acts and things which
may  be  incidental  or  conducive  to  the
attainment of the objects of this Act.

PART II

ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF

THE AFFAIRS OF THE OFFICE

Administration
and
management
of  the  Office
vested  in  the
Council

5. (1) The administration and management of the affairs of
the  Office  shall  be  vested  in  the  National  Hydrographic
Council (in this Act referred to as the “Council”).

(2) The Council shall, for the purpose of administering
and managing the affairs of the Office in a manner expedient
for the achievement of the objects of this Act, exercise, perform
and  discharge  the  powers,  duties  and  functions  conferred
on, assigned to, or imposed on the Office by this Act.

Constitution  of
the  Council

6. (1) The Council shall consist of –

(a) the following ex-officio members, namely -

(i)

Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Defence or his

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

9

representative not below the rank of an

Additional Secretary;

(ii)

Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the

Minister  assigned  the  subject  of

Finance or his representative not below

the rank of an Additional Secretary;

(iii)

Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the

Minister  assigned  the  subject  of

fisheries or his representative not below

the rank of an Additional Secretary;

(iv)

Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the

Minister  assigned  the  subject  of

Foreign Affairs or his representative not

below  the  rank  of  an  Additional

Secretary;

(v) Commander  of  the  Sri  Lanka  Navy

appointed  in  terms  of  the  Navy  Act

(Chapter 358);

(vi) Chairman of the Governing Board of the

National Aquatic Resources Research

and  Development Agency  appointed

under the National Aquatic Resources

Research  and  Development  Agency

Act, No. 54 of 1981;

(vii)

the Surveyor-General;

(viii) Director-General of Merchant Shipping

appointed under the Merchant Shipping

Act, No.52 of 1971;

10

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

(ix) Harbour Master appointed under the Sri
Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of
1979;

(x) Director-General of the Department of
Coast  Guard  appointed  under  the
Department of Coast Guard Act, No. 41
of  2009;

(xi)

Chairman  of  the  University  Grants
Commission  appointed  under  the
Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 or the
Vice-Chairman of the same;

(xii) Chairman of the Board of Management
of  the  Geological  Survey  and  Mines
Bureau appointed under the Mines and
Minerals Act, No. 33 of 1992;

(xiii) Chairman of the Marine Environment
Protection Authority  appointed  under
the  Marine  Pollution  Prevention Act,
No. 35 of  2008;

(xiv) Director-General of Coast Conservation
and  Coastal  Resource  Management
appointed 
the  Coast
under 
Conservation  and  Coastal  Resource
Management  Act, No. 57 of 1981; and

(xv) Chairman of the Central Environmental
Authority appointed under the National
Environmental  Act, No. 47 of 1980; and

(b)

three members appointed by the Minister
who  shall  possess  academic  or
professional  qualifications  and  have
experience in the fields of hydrography or
hydrography related discipline (hereinafter

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

11

referred  to  as  “appointed  members”)
including  at 
least  one  qualified
Hydrographic Surveyor and one Nautical
Cartographer.

(2)  Where  the  Commandar  of  the  Sri  Lanka  Navy  is
appointed as an ex officio member under subsection (1), such
appointment  shall  be  made  in  terms  of  the  Navy Act  ,
(Chapter  358)  in  respect  of  the  performance  of  non-naval
duties under the provisions of that Act.

7.  (1)  The  Minister  shall  appoint  one  of  the  appointed

members to be the Chairperson of the Council.

Chairperson
of  the
Council

(2) The Chairperson may resign from his office by a letter
addressed  to  the  Minister  and  such  resignation  shall  be
effective from the date on which it is accepted by the Minister.

(3) The Minister may, for reasons assigned therefor remove

the Chairperson from the office of Chairperson.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),
the term of office of the Chairperson shall be the period of his
membership of the Council.

(5) Where the Chairperson is temporarily unable to exercise,
perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions of
his office due to ill health, other infirmity, absence from Sri
Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appoint any other
appointed member to act as the Chairperson in addition to his
normal duties as an appointed member during the absence of
the Chairperson.

8. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or

continuing as a member of the Council, if he –

(a)

is or becomes a member of Parliament or of
any  Provincial  Council  or  of  any  local
authority;

Disqualifications
from  being  a
member  of
the  Council

12

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or
any other country found or declared to be
of unsound mind;

is  a  person  who  having  been  declared
insolvent  or  bankrupt  under  any  law  in
force in Sri Lanka and is an undischarged
insolvent or bankrupt;

is  subject  to  an  ongoing  investigation  in
respect  of  an  offence  under  any  other
written law;

is  serving  or  has  served  a  sentence  of
imprisonment  of  more  than  six  months
imposed by any court in Sri Lanka or any
other  country;

holds or enjoys any right or benefit under
any contract made by or on behalf of the
Office; or

has  any  financial  or  other  interest  as  is
likely to affect prejudicially the discharge
by him of his functions as a member of the
Council.

Term  of
office

Resignation
and  removal

9. Every appointed member of the Council shall, unless he
vacates office earlier by resignation, death or removal, hold
office  for  a  period  of  three  years  from  the  date  of  his
appointment and unless removed from office, shall be eligible
for reappointment for not more than one further term, whether
consecutive or otherwise.

10. (1) Any appointed member of the Council may at any
time, resign from his office by a letter to that effect, addressed
to the Minister, and such resignation shall be effective from
the date on which it is accepted by the Minister in writing.

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

13

(2)  Where  any  appointed  member  by  reason  of  illness,
infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka is temporarily unable to
discharge the functions of his office, the Minister may, having
regard to the provisions of paragraph (b) of section 6, appoint
a person to act in his place during his absence.

(3) The Minister may for reasons assigned therefor, remove
an appointed member from office. An appointed member who
has  been  removed  from  office  shall  not  be  eligible  for
reappointment as a member of the Council or to serve the
Council in any other capacity.

(4)  Where  an  appointed  member  dies,  resigns  or  is
removed from office, the Minister may having regard to the
provisions of paragraph (b) of section 6, appoint a person in
his place and the person so appointed shall hold office for
the unexpired period of the term of office of the member whom
he  succeeds.

11. (1) The meetings of the Council shall be held at least
once in every month and the quorum for a meeting of the
Council shall be seven members.

Quorum  and
meetings  of
the  Council

(2) The Chairperson shall preside at every meeting of the
Council. In the absence of the Chairperson from any meeting
of the Council, a member elected by the members present
shall preside at such meeting.

(3) A meeting of the Council may be held either-

(a) by the number of members who constitute a quorum
being  assembled  at  the  place,  date  and  time
appointed for the meeting; or

(b) by  means  of  audio-visual  linkage  by  which  all
members  participating  and  constituting  a  quorum
can simultaneously see and hear each participating
member for the duration of the meeting.

14

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

(4) All  questions  for  a  decision  at  any  meeting  of  the
Council  shall  be  decided  by  the  vote  of  the  majority  of
members present at such meeting. In the case of an equality
of votes, the Chairperson shall, in addition to his vote have
a casting vote.

(5) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,
the  Council  may  regulate  the  procedure  in  relation  to  the
meetings of the Council and the transaction of business at
such meetings.

Acts  or
proceedings
of  the  Council
deemed  not  to  be
invalid  by
reason  of  any
vacancy

12.  The  Council  may  act  notwithstanding  any  vacancy
among its members and any act or proceeding of the Council
shall not be or deemed to be invalid by reason only of the
existence of any vacancy among its members or any defect
in the appointment of a member thereof.

Remuneration
of  the
members  of
the  Council

Seal,  logo  and
flag  of  the
Office

13. The members of the Council shall be paid remuneration
in such manner and at such rates as may be determined by
the Minister, with the concurrence of the Minister assigned
the subject of Finance.

14. (1) The seal of the Office shall be in the custody of

such person as the Council may decide from time to time.

(2) The seal of the Office may be altered in such manner as

may be determined by the Council.

(3)  The  seal  of  the  Office  shall  not  be  affixed  to  any
instrument  or  document  except  with  the  sanction  of  the
Council and in the presence of the Chairperson and one other
member  of  the  Council  who  shall  sign  the  instrument  or
document in token of their presence:

Provided however, where the Chairperson is unable to be
present at the time when the seal of the Office is affixed to
any instrument or document, any other member of the Council
authorised in writing by the Chairperson in that behalf shall

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

15

be  competent  to  sign  such  instrument  or  document  in
accordance with the preceding provision of this subsection.

(4) The Office shall maintain a register of the instruments
and  documents  to  which  the  seal  of  the  Office  has  been
affixed.

(5) There shall be a logo exclusive for the use of the Office.

(6) There shall be a flag to maintain the identity of the

Office.

(7) A person who knowingly or wilfully misuses the seal,
logo  or  the  flag  of  the  Office  under  this Act,  commits  an
offence under this Act and shall on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding two
million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

PART III

NATIONAL HYDROGRAPER AND THE STAFF OF THE OFFICE

15.  (1)  There  shall  be  a  National  Hydrographer  of  the
Office  appointed  by  the  Council  in  consultation  with  the
Minister.

(2) The person appointed as the National Hydrographer

shall –

(a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(b) be physically and mentally fit;

(c) be  a  Hydrographic  Surveyor  with  at  least  fifteen

years post qualification experience–

(i)

in  professional 
hydrographic  surveying;

activities  of

Appointment
of  the
National
Hydrographer
of  the
Office

16

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

(ii)

in hydrographic project management;
and

(iii) thorough  understanding  in  nautical

cartography;  and

(d) be not more than fifty five years of age as at the date

of appointment; and

(e) be competent, of high moral integrity and of good

repute.

(3) The National Hydrographer, unless he vacates office
earlier by death, by operation of law, resignation or removal
shall hold office for a term of three years and unless removed
from the office shall be eligible for reappointment subject to a
maximum  period  of  any  three  terms  of  office  whether
consecutive or otherwise.

(4) The National Hydrographer shall, subject to the general

or special directions of the Council, –

(a) be  charged  with  the  conduct  of  day  to  day
administration of the affairs of the Office including
the administration and control of the staff;

(b) be responsible for the execution of all decisions of

the Council; and

(c)

carry out all such functions as may be assigned to
him by the Council.

(5) The National Hydrographer shall be the Secretary to
the  Council  and  entitled  to  be  present  and  speak  at  any
meeting of the Council, but shall not be entitled to vote at
such meeting.

(6) The National Hydrographer may, with the approval of
the  Council,  wherever  he  considers  it  necessary  to  do  so,
delegate in writing to any officer or employee of the Office,

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

17

any  of  his  functions  referred  to  in  subsection  (4)  and  the
officer or employee to whom any such function is delegated
shall discharge them subject to the directions of the National
Hydrographer.

(7) The Council may remove the National Hydrographer

from office –

(a)

(b)

if he becomes permanently incapable of performing
his  duties;

if he had done any act which the Council has decided
to  be  of  a  fraudulent  or  illegal  character  or  is
prejudicial to the interests of the Office; or

(c) has failed to comply with any direction issued by

the Council.

(8)  The  National  Hydrographer  shall  be  paid  such
remuneration as may be determined by the Council with the
concurrence of the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

16. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Office
may employ or appoint such officers and employees as may
be  necessary  for  the  efficient  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions.

Staff  of  the
Office

(2)  The  Council  shall  have  the  power  subject  to  the

provisions of the Act to –

(a)

(b)

exercise  disciplinary  control  over  and
dismiss the officers and employees of the
Office appointed under subsection (1);

determine  the  terms  and  conditions  of
service of officers and employees of the
Office appointed under subsection (1); and

18

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

(c)

fix  the  rates  at  which  such  officers  and
employees shall be remunerated with the
concurrence of the Minister assigned the
subject of Finance.

(3) All officers and employees of the Office shall, within
one month of employment, declare in writing to the Office of
their personal direct or indirect interest to the affairs and
transactions  of  the  Office  including  those  of  their  close
relations or, concerns in which such officer or employee has
a substantial interest.

(4) The Office may establish and regulate pension and
provident funds and schemes for the benefit of the National
Hydrographer  and  its  officers  and  employees  and  their
dependants  and  nominees  with  the  concurrence  of  the
Minister  assigned  the  subject  of  Finance  and  may  make
contributions to any such fund or scheme.

(5) The Office shall promote and sponsor the training of
its officers and employees and for this purpose, the Office
shall be authorised to defray the costs of study, in Sri Lanka
or abroad of the officers and employees of the Office who
are of proven merit as determined by the Office.

(6) The Office shall establish a code of conduct which
shall be applicable to the officers and employees of the Office.

(7) The Office shall not appoint any person to the staff of

the Office under subsection (1), where such person –

(a) has  been  previously  found  guilty  of  serious
misconduct  by  a  court  or  tribunal  or  has  been
subject to a disciplinary action by a regulatory body;

(b) has been previously dismissed from office; or

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

19

(c)

has committed a breach of the provisions
of  this Act,  regulations  or  rules  made
thereunder.

(8) At the request of the Office, any officer in the public
service may, with the consent of the officer and the Public
Service Commission be temporarily appointed to the staff of
the Office for such period as may be determined by the Office
or with like consent, be permanently appointed to such staff.

(9) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Office,  the  provisions  of
subsection  (2)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis, apply
to and in relation to such officer.

(10) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Office,  the  provisions  of
subsection  (3)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis, apply
to and in relation to such officer.

(11) Where the Office employs any person who has agreed
to serve the Government for a specified period, any period of
service  to  the  Office  by  that  person  shall  be  regarded  as
service to the Government for the purpose of discharging the
obligations of such agreement.

(12) At the request of the Office, any officer of the Sri
Lanka Army, Sri Lanka Navy or Sri Lanka Air Force may, with
the  written  sanction  of  the  Commander  of  the  Army,
Commander of the Navy or the Commander of the Air Force,
as the case may be, be temporarily appointed to the Office for
such period as may be determined by the Office subject to
the  provisions  of  the Army Act  (Chapter  357),  Navy Act
(Chapter 358), and the Air Force Act (Chapter 359), as the
case may be.

20

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

(13) The Office may with the consent of such officer or
employee propose secondment of its officers or employees
to other state institutions or regulatory authorities in Sri Lanka
or  abroad  for  a  period  determined  by  the  Office  on  an
assignment  agreed  upon  between  such  institution  or  the
authority and the Office. The period of secondment shall be
deemed to be considered as service to the Office.

PART  IV

REGISTRATION AS HYDROGRAPHIC SURVEYORS OR

NAUTICAL CARTOGRAPHERS

17.  (1) A  person  shall  not  practice  as  a  Hydrographic
Surveyor or as a Nautical Cartographer unless such person is
registered under the provisions of section 18 of this Act:

Provided that, any Hydrographic Surveyor or a Nautical
Cartographer who is engaged in the practice of hydrographic
surveying or nautical cartography other than on the Sri Lanka
internal waters on the date of commencement of this Act shall,
within two years from the date of commencement of this Act,
register himself under the provisions of section 18.

(2) Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of
subsection (1) commits an offence under this Act and shall
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable
to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both
such fine and imprisonment.

18. (1) A person who wishes to practice as a Hydrographic
Surveyor or a Nautical Cartographer shall  make an application
to the Office for registration.

Hydrographic
Surveyors  or
Nautical
Cartographers
to  register
under  this
Act

Application
for
registration
as a
Hydrographic
Surveyor  or  a
Nautical
Cartographer

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

21

(2) The applicant under subsection (1) shall possess such
qualifications  and  experience  as  may  be  prescribed  in
compliance with international standards.

(3)  An  application  under  subsection  (1)  shall  be
substantially in a form as may be prescribed by regulation
and accompanied by a prescribed fee.

(4) The Office may require an applicant to furnish further
information in connection with an application as it may specify.

(5) An applicant shall bear the cost incurred in connection
with the verification of information submitted in support of
an application.

(6) Upon the receipt of an application under subsection
(1), the office shall, on consideration of the matters contained
in the application decide either to register as a Hydrographic
Surveyor or a Nautical Cartographer subject to the provisions
of this Act and to such terms and conditions specified therein
or for the reasons to be recorded by it, refuse to register as a
Hydrographic Surveyor or a Nautical Cartographer.

(7) The Office shall in writing inform the applicant of its
decision and in the case of a refusal to register, it shall state
its  reasons  therefor  within  one  month  from  the  date  of
informing the said decision.

(8) A Hydrographic Surveyor or a Nautical Cartographer
registered under this section shall be granted with a Certificate
of  Registration in the respective field in the form and manner
as may be prescribed (hereinafter referred to as the “Certificate
of Registration”).

(9) The Certificate of Registration shall include such terms
and conditions subject to which such registration has been
granted.

19. (1) A Certificate of Registration that has been granted
under this Act shall, unless cancelled earlier be valid for a
period of one year from the date of the issue of the Certificate
of Registration.

Duration  of  a
registration

Renewal  of
Certificate  of
Registration

22

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

(2) The Office may cancel a Certificate of Registration

issued under section 18, if it is satisfied that the holder of the

Certificate of Registration has violated the provisions of the

Act or regulations made thereunder or any of the terms and

conditions of such Certificate of Registration.

20. A Certificate of Registration issued under section 18

shall be renewable on an application in a form as may be

prescribed being made in that behalf to the Office not later

than  thirty  days  before  the  expiry  of  the  Certificate  of

Registration  and  be  accompanied  by  a  fee  as  may  be

prescribed:

Provided that, any Hydrographic Surveyor or a Nautical

Cartographer who is a public officer shall not be required to

renew the registration under this section for so long as such

officer serves as a public officer.

Refusal  to
register  or
renew  a
Cerificate  of
Registration

21. (1) Where an application is made for the registration or

renewal of a Certificate of Registration, the Office may refuse

to register or renew the Certificate of Registration on any of

the following grounds: -

(a)

non-compliance with the rules made in that

behalf;

(b)

failure  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of

this  Act  or,  regulations  or  rules  made

thereunder;

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

23

(c)

the information or documents furnished by the
applicant to the Office is false or misleading or,
material omissions exist; or

(d)

has  been  convicted  for  an  offence  under  the
provisions of this Act.

(2) The Office shall not refuse to register or renew the
Certificate of Registration without giving the applicant an
opportunity of being heard.

22.  (1)  Every  Hydrographic  Surveyor  or  a  Nautical
Cartographer, as the case may be, who is registered under
section 18, shall have the right to use if such person is –

Use  of
abbreviated
designations

(a)

(b)

a Hydrographic Surveyor, the abbreviated
designation “HyS”; and

a Nautical Cartographer, the abbreviated
designation “NauC”.

(2) A  person  shall  not  use  any  abbreviated  designation
referred to in subsection (1) unless such person is registered
as a Hydrographic Surveyor or a Nautical Cartographer under
the provisions of this Act.

23. (1) Where the Office is satisfied that any Hydrographic

Surveyor or a Nautical Cartographer –

Cancellation  or
suspension  of  a
registration

(a) has contravened the provisions of this Act, or
any regulation or rule made thereunder;

(b) has contravened any term or condition of the
Certificate of Registration issued under section
18; or

(c) has  been  found  guilty  of  a  prescribed  act  or
professional misconduct, after an inquiry held
by  the  Complaint  Resolution  Committee
established by the Office under section 26,

24

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

the  Office  shall  take  steps  to  suspend  the  registration  of
such  Hydrographic  Surveyor  or  a  Nautical  Cartographer
issued  under  section  18  and  cause  a  notice  of  such
suspension  be  issued  forthwith  to  such  Hydrographic
Surveyor or a Nautical Cartographer.

(2) Any such notice shall specify the grounds on which
the decision of the Office is based on, and shall indicate that
such Hydrographic Surveyor or the Nautical Cartographer
may within a period of one month commencing from the date
of receipt of the notice submit to the Office in writing any
reason as to why the registration shall not be cancelled.

(3) Where such Hydrographic Surveyor or the Nautical
Cartographer, as the case may be, fails to submit the reasons
within the period of one month or where the Office is not
satisfied  with  the  reasons  given  by  the  Hydrographic
Surveyor or the Nautical Cartographer, the Office may after
due  inquiry  cancel  the  registration  of  such  Hydrographic
Surveyor or the Nautical Cartographer as the case may be,
and inform such person in writing about such cancellation.

(4)  Where  any  Hydrographic  Surveyor  or  a  Nautical
Cartographer is convicted for an offence under this Act, the
Certificate of Registration issued to such person under section
18 shall –

(a) where no appeal is preferred against the conviction,

be cancelled; or

(b) where an appeal is preferred in terms of relevant
written law, be suspended until the decision of the
appellate court to which the appeal is preferred is
pronounced.

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

25

(5) Where the registration of a Hydrographic Surveyor or
a Nautical Cartographer is cancelled, the name of such person
shall be removed from the registers kept under section 38 of
this Act.

(6) Any person whose registration is cancelled under this
section shall within fourteen days handover his respective
Certificate of Registration to the Office.

PART V

APPEALS

24. (1) Any person who is aggrieved by the decision of
the Office other than under subsection (4) of section 23 may
within thirty days of being notified of such decision, appeal
to  the Appeals  Board  appointed  by  the  Minister  for  this
purpose under section 25.

Appeals

(2) The Appeals Board may, after taking into consideration
all  the  relevant  factors  and  where  it  is  appropriate  and
reasonable –

(a)

allow the appeal and vary the decision of the
Office or confirm such decision; or

(b)

disallow the appeal.

25. (1) The Minster shall appoint an Appeals Board which

Appeals  Board

shall consist of –

(a)

(b)

a  registered  Hydrographic  Surveyor  and  a
Nautical Cartographer with at least five years
experience;

an Attorney-at-Law who is qualified in the field
of maritime law with at least ten years experience
in the relevant field; and

26

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

(c)

a Class 1 officer of  the Sri Lanka Administrative
Service.

(2)  The  Minister  when  appointing  the  members  of  the

Appeals Board may consult the Office.

(3) The members of the Appeals Board shall hold office
for a term of three years from the date of appointment and
shall be eligible for reappointment.

(4) The Minister may make regulations prescribing the
manner in which the meetings and business of the Appeals
Board shall be carried out.

(5) The Appeals Board shall inform its decision to the

Office.

(6)  Upon receiving the decision of the Appeals Board,
the Office shall forthwith inform the appellant of such decision
and act in accordance with the decision of the Appeals Board.

(7) The members of the Appeals Board may be paid such
remuneration as may be determined by the Minister with the
concurrence of the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

26. (1) The Office shall establish a Complaints Resolution
Committee  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Committee”)
comprising of such officers authorised by the Office to hear
complaints  by  any  person  relating  to  the  professional
misconduct  or  breach  of  any  provision  of  this  Act,  or
regulations or rules made thereunder.

(2) The Committee may hold such inquiries as may be
deemed  necessary  or  expedient  and  for  such  purpose
summon  and  call  upon  any  person  to  appear  before  the
Committee  to  give  evidence  or  to  produce  any  book  or
document in the possession or control of such person as are
required for the purpose of such inquiries.

Inquiry  by
Complaints
Resolution
Committee

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

27

(3) The Office shall establish an appropriate procedure for
handling such complaints and all matters incidental thereto
by rules made under this Act.

(4) The Committee may on receipt of any written complaint
made by a person, examine the evidence produced before
such  Committee  to  find  whether  any  prescribed  act  of
professional  misconduct  has  been  committed  by  the
Hydrographic  Surveyor  or  Nautical  Cartographer,  against
whom the complaint is made.

(5)  Where  the  Committee  finds  that  a  person  has
contravened any provision of this Act, or regulations or a
rules  made  thereunder,  the  Committee  shall  convey  such
finding with a recommendation to the Office and the Office
shall  have  the  discretion  to  either  give  effect  to  such
recommendation  or  take  any  other  action  as  it  may  deem
expedient.

(6) The Office shall not take any action under this section
without affording the person an opportunity of being heard.

PART  VI

FINANCE

27. (1) The Office shall have its own Fund (hereinafter

referred to as “the Fund”).

Fund  of  the
Office

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund –

(a)

(b)

all such sums of money as may be voted from time
to time by Parliament, for the use of the Office;

all such sums of money as may be received by the
Office in the exercise and discharge of its powers,
duties and functions under this Act; and

28

(c)

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

all such sums of money as may be received by the
Office by way of income, fees, charges, grants, gifts
or donations from any source whatsoever whether
within or outside Sri Lanka:

Provided that, the Office shall obtain the prior
written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the  subject  of  Finance,  in  respect  of  all  foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Office.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund –

(a)

all such sums of money as are required to defray
any  expenditure  incurred  by  the  Office  in  the
exercise, performance and discharge of its powers,
duties and functions under this Act; and

(b)

all such sums of money as are required to be paid
out of the Fund by or under this Act.

Financial  year
and  audit  of
accounts

28. (1) The financial year of the Office shall be the calendar

year.

(2) The Council shall cause proper books of accounts to
be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Office.

(3)  The  provisions  of Article  154  of  the  Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to the audit of accounts of the Office.

(4)  The  Council  shall  submit  the  audited  statement  of
accounts together with the auditor’s report to the Minister

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

29

within five months of the end of the financial year to which
such report relates. The Minister shall place such statement
and the report before Parliament within two months of the
receipt thereof.

PART VII

GENERAL

29. (1) The Council may in writing and subject to such
conditions  as  may  be  specified  therein,  delegate  to  the
National  Hydrographer  the  powers,  duties  and  functions
conferred on the Council under paragraphs (a) and (b) of
subsection   (2) of section 16 and the National Hydrographer
shall exercise, perform and discharge such powers, duties
and functions in the name and on behalf of the Council.

(2)  The  Council  may,  notwithstanding  any  delegation
made  under  subsection  (1),  by  itself  exercise,  perform  or
discharge any power, duty or function so delegated and may
at any time revoke any such delegation.

30. No civil or criminal proceedings shall be instituted
against the National Hydrographer, any officer or employee
of the Office or any member of the Council, for any act which
in good faith is done or purported to be done by him under
this Act or on the directions of the Office or the Council as
the case may be, if he proves that he acted in good faith and
exercised all due diligence, reasonable care and skill.

Delegation  of
the  powers  of
the  Council

Protection  for
action  taken
under  this Act

31.  (1)  Every  member  of  the  Council,  the      National
Hydrographer, and every officer or employee of the Office
shall,  before  entering  into  the  duties  of  his  office  sign  a
declaration that he will not disclose any information received
by  him  or  coming  to  his  knowledge  in  the  exercise,

Duty  to
maintain
Secrecy

30

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

performance  and  discharge  of  his  powers,  duties  and
functions under this Act  except for the purpose of giving
effect to the provisions of this Act to the extent permitted
under the provisions of Right to Information Act, No. 12 of
2016.

(2)  Any  person  who  contravenes  the  provisions  of
subsection (1), commits an offence under this Act, and shall
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable
to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding
one year or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Database

32. (1) The Office shall create, manage and maintain a
database of all hydrographic survey data, marine data and
hydrospatial data collected by the Office.

Duplicates

(2)  The  Office  shall  take  all  necessary  steps  including
technical safeguards to ensure the security of all its databases
and data.

33. (1) The duplicates of all the nautical charts and nautical
publications  prepared  by  every  registered  Hydrographic
Surveyor or a Nautical Cartographer during the preceding
month to be submitted to the Office on or before the fifteenth
day of every month together with a list in duplicate in such
form and manner as may be prescribed.

(2) The Office shall maintain such duplicates in the form

and manner as may be prescribed.

(3) Where any nautical chart or fair sheet is not prepared
by a Hydrographic Surveyor or a Nautical Cartographer in
any month, such person shall, unless he is absent from Sri
Lanka furnish a nil list for that month on or before the fifteenth
day of the following month.

Authenticity  of
nautical  charts  &
etc.

Interference
with  survey
marks

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

31

(4) A Hydrographic Surveyor or a Nautical Cartographer
who fails to submit the duplicates commits a professional
misconduct under the provisions of this Act.

34. Any nautical chart, fair sheet or any other navigational
chart or bathymetric sheet prepared in accordance with any
other  written  law,  purporting  to  be  a  true  copy  of  such  a
nautical chart or fair sheet and purporting to be signed by
the National Hydrographer or any officer acting on his behalf
shall be admissible in evidence in all cases and for all purposes
and may be taken as prima facie evidence of the truth of the
facts  stated  therein  and  it  shall  not  be  necessary  to  prove
that  such  copy  was  in  fact  signed  or  authenticated  by  the
National Hydrographer or the officer acting on his behalf or
that it is a true copy or that the facts stated therein are accurate
until the contrary is proved.

35.  (1)  A  person  who  knowingly  or  willfully  removes,
destroys,  alters  the  position  of  or  markings  on  any
hydrographic survey mark at the sea or coastal area, buoys
or beacons that have been placed or set up for the control of
hydrographic  surveys  or  delineation  of  boundaries  or
identification  of  danger  or  for  the  purpose  of  any  survey
conducted under this Act, commits an offence under this Act
and  shall on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate
be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one  million  rupees  or  to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both
such fine and imprisonment.

(2) Any  person  who  is  convicted  under  subsection  (1)
shall, in addition to the fine or term of imprisonment or both
for which such person is liable also be liable to such costs as
may  be  determined  by  the  Office  in  respect  of  repairing,
replacing  or  restoring  any  such  survey  marks,  buoys  or
beacons specified in subsection (1).

32

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

Power  to  access
any  place

36.  (1)  For  the  purpose  of  exercise,  performance  and
discharge  of  the  powers,  duties  and  functions,  it  shall  be
lawful for the Office or any person authorised by the Office
to conduct the following -

(a)

(b)

(c)

to  have  access  to  any  place,  premises,  vehicle,
aircraft or a vessel;

to place or enact any permanent light, benchmark,
reference mark or any temporary flag, sign or other
mark  for  the  purpose  of  hydrographic  surveying;
and

to remove any flora or fauna obstructing any beacon,
mark,  trigonometrical  point,  flag,  buoy  or  signal
unless it is prohibited under any other written law.

(2)  For the purpose of exercising the powers specified

under subsection (1) –

(a)

(b)

(c)

prior  written  notice  shall  be  given  to  the  owner,
occupier or the person in possession of the place,
premises,  vehicle,  air  craft  or  vessel  within  a
reasonable period of time;

the  owner,  occupier  or  the  person  in  possession
shall be reimbursed with any damage caused to such
person’s  property  while  carrying  out  any  power,
duty or function under subsection (1) in the manner
specified by the Office; or

 prior written approval of the relevant authority be
obtained  if  the  access  to  any  place,  premises,
vehicle, aircraft or vessel is restricted due to national
security or under the provision of any other written
law.

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

33

37.  Any  vessel  used  for  the  hydrographic  surveying  in
the waters of Sri Lanka and any mechanical or non-mechanical
equipment shall be approved by the Office as may be specified
by the Office in accordance with the rules made in that behalf.

Vessels  of  the
hydrographic
servey  fleet

38. The Office shall, in accordance with the provisions of
this  Act  and  regulations  made  thereunder  maintain  the
registers  of  the  Hydrographic  Surveyors  and  Nautical
Cartographers in the form and manner as may be prescribed.

Registers  to  be
kept  by  the
Office

39. (1) In terms of the provisions of this Act, where any
immovable property of the State is required for the purposes
of the Office, such purpose shall be deemed to be a purpose
for which a special grant or lease of such property be made to
the Office under section 6 of the Crown Lands Ordinance
(Chapter  454)  and  accordingly  the  provisions  of  that
Ordinance  shall  apply  to  a  special  grant  or  lease  of  such
property to the Office for such purpose.

State  property
both  movable
and  immovable
be  made
available  to  the
Office

(2)  Where  any  movable  property  of  a  Government
department  or  any  public  corporation  is  required  for  the
purposes of the Office, the Minister may by Order published
in the Gazette transfer to and vest in the Office the possession
and use of such movable property.

(3)  No  Order  affecting  any  movable  property  of  any
Government department or public corporation shall be made
by the Minister under subsection (2) without the concurrence
of  the  Minister  assigned  with  that  department  or  public
corporation.

40.  Where any person contravenes any provision of this
Act  or  any  regulations  or    rules  made  thereunder  and  no
penalty has been specified under this Act in respect of such
contravention,  such  person  shall,  on  conviction  after
summary  trail  before  a  Magistrate,  be  liable  to  a  fine  not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding six months or to both
such fine and imprisonment.

Penalties  for
cotraventions
for  which  no
spesific
provisions  have
been  made

Provision
regarding
prosecution

Office  deemed
to be a Scheduled
Institution
within  the
meaning  of  the
Anti-Corruption
Act

Members,
National
Hydrographer,
officers  and
employees  of
the  Office
deemed  to  be
public  servants

Directions    of
the  Minister

34

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

41. An officer authorized in writing by the Office shall be
deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section
136 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, for
the purpose of instituting proceedings in respect of offences
under this Act.

42.  The  Office  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Act,
No. 9 of 2023 and the provisions of that Act shall be construed
accordingly.

43. All members of the Council, the National Hydrographer
and all officers and employees of the Office shall be deemed
to be public servants within the meaning and for the purposes
of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

44. The Minister may from time to time, for the purpose
of giving effect to the objects of the Act and the State policy,
issue to the Council, general directions as to the exercise,
performance  and  discharge  of  the  powers,  duties  and
functions of the Office.

Provisions  of
this Act  to
prevail  over
other  written
law

45.  The  provisions  of  this  Act  shall  have  effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other written
law  and  accordingly  in  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  or
conflict between the provisions of this Act and such other
written law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

Regulations

46. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of all
matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of
which regulations are authorized by this Act to be made.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of
the provisions contained in subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations in regard to –

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

35

(a)

the  mode  and  manner  of  preparation  and
maintenance  of  nautical  charts  in  relation  to  the
waters of Sri Lanka;

(b)

adaptation  of  international  procedures  related  to

hydrographic  services;

(c)

 the manner in which hydrographic surveys to be

conducted and the form and the manner in which

the nautical charts, fair sheets, digital data and other

records pertaining to a hydrographic survey to be

prepared  and  the  details  to  be  inserted  in  such

nautical charts, fair sheets, field books and records;

(d)

the degree of accuracy to be attained in hydrographic

surveys and the limit of error to be allowed;

(e)

the  steps  to  be  taken  to  test  the  accuracy  of

hydrographic surveys and for the correction of any

inaccuracies that may be discovered;

(f)

  the  courses  of  study  and  training  required  to  be

obtained  by  a  hydrographic  surveyor  before

renewing such person’s registration;

(g)

guidelines to be followed by registered hydrographic

surveyors and Nautical Cartographers;

(h)

form and manner and procedure relating to qualifying

exams  and  professional  tests  to  be  followed  by
persons who intend to register under the provisions
this Act; and

36

(i)

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

registration of institutions which provide educational
and professional qualifications to any person who
intends to obtain a registration under the provisions
of this Act.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister within three
months after its publication in the Gazette be brought before
Parliament for approval.

(4) Any  regulation  which  is  not  so  approved  shall  be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval
but without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation is so

disapproved shall be published in the Gazette.

Rules

47. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council
may make rules in respect of all or any of the following matters: -

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

all matters for which rules are authorised or required
to be made under this Act;

the meetings of the Council and the procedure to be
followed at such meetings;

code of conduct to be followed by the officers and
employees of the Office and a code of conduct to be
followed by the registered Hydrographic Surveyors
and Nautical Cartographers; and

the  appointment,  promotion,  remuneration  and
disciplinary control of officers and employees and
the grant of leave and other emoluments to officers
and employees.

(2) Every rule made by the Office shall be approved by the
Minister and be published in the Gazette and shall come into
operation on the date of its publication or on such later date
as may be specified therein.

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

37

48. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

Interpretation

‘‘contiguous  zone”  means  the  zone  which  may  not
extend  beyond  twenty  four  nautical  miles
from the baselines from which the breadth
of the territorial sea is measured;

‘‘digital data” means information obtained or created
by the operation of electronic equipment in
the  course  of  hydrographic  surveying,
nautical  charting  or  related  incidental
activities;

‘‘exclusive economic zone” means the zone which shall
not  extend  beyond  two  hundred  nautical
miles  from  the  baselines  from  which  the
breadth of the territorial sea is measured;

‘‘Fair sheets” means bathymetric data set in digital or

graphic formats;

‘‘hydrography” means the branch of applied sciences
which  deals  with  the  measurement  and
description  of  the  physical  features  of
oceans, seas, coastal areas, lakes and rivers,
as well as with the prediction of their change
over time, for the primary purpose of safety
of  navigation  and  in  support  of  all  other
marine  activities,  including  economic
development,  security  and  defence,
scientific  research  and  environmental
protection;

38

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

‘‘hydrographic  services”  includes  the  management,

maintenance, interpretation, certification and

dissemination 

of 

bathymetric,

hydrographic, 

shoreline,  geodetic,

geospatial,  geomagnetic,  and  tide,  water

level, and current information, including the

production  of  nautical  charts,  nautical

information databases, and other products

derived  from  hydrographic  data;  the

development  of  nautical  information

systems and related activities;

‘‘hydrographic  survey”  means  any  conduct  of

hydrography;

‘‘hydrographic  surveyor”  means  any  person  who

studies  and  practices  the  science  of

hydrography complies with the international

standard of competence as laid down by the

international organizations;

‘‘hydrospatial ” means the hydrospatial sciences and

denoting data, information and knowledge

that is associated with a particular location

and  time  of  the  earth’s  water  and  there

contiguous  zones;

‘‘internal waters” mean waters located landward of

the base lines from which the territorial sea

is  measured  and  includes  such  as  rivers,

lakes, ponds and reservoirs of Sri Lanka;

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

39

“marine”  means  anything  related  to  navigation  or

shipping  and  includes  anything  related  to

or  connected  with  the  sea  and  refers  to

things  which  are  used  or  adopted  for  the

use at sea;

“marine  data”  means data  relating  to  navigation  or

shipping and includes any data related to or

connected with  sea and the refers  to  data

which  are  used  or  adopted  for  the  use  at

sea;

‘‘marine geospatial data ” includes dense data on the

depth  of  oceans,  magnetic  nature,  gravity

changes,  sound  wave  propagation  in  sea

water temperature and pressure variations,

behaviour of ocean currents and tides in the

coastal zone of Sri Lanka;

‘‘maritime” means bordering on, concerned with or

related to the sea; and

‘‘maritime zone” means any maritime zone declared

under the Maritime Zones Law, No. 22 of

1976 and includes –

(a)

the contiguous zone;

(b)

the  exclusive  economic

zone;

40

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

(c)

the continental shelf; and

(d)

the  pollution  prevention
zone,

declared  by  Proclamation  in  terms  of  the
aforesaid Law, and any other zone
which may be declared at a future
date under the said Law;

‘‘Minister” means the Minister assigned the
subject  of  the  Defence  under
Article  44  or  45  of 
the
Constitution;

‘‘nautical cartography” means the art and
science of expressing electronic or
printed nautical charts by means
of  computer  hardware  and
software  which  aids  humans  to
make decisions and perform their
functions;

‘‘nautical cartographer” means the person
in  drawing  and
employed 
constructing electronic or printed
nautical charts complies with the
of
international 
competence as laid down by the
international organizations;

standard 

‘‘nautical  charting”  means  the  activity  or
process  of  making  a  digital  or
printed chart of water bodies;

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

41

‘‘nautical charts” means a chart specifically
designed to meet the requirements
of  marine  navigation,  showing
depths of water, nature of bottom,
elevations,  configuration  and
characteristics of coast, dangers,
and aids to navigation;

‘‘navigation” means the process of directing
the movement of a craft from one
point to another;

‘‘notices to mariners” means corrections to
nautical charts and publications.
These  only  contain  information
which is vitally important to safety
at sea;

‘‘ocean” means the vast body of water on
the  surface  of  the  globe,  which
surrounds  the  land  the  main  or
great  sea,  one  of  the  main  areas
into which this body of water is
divided geographically;

‘‘pollution prevention zone’’ means the zone
which  is  formulated  to  prevent,
reduce,  control  and  manage
pollution arising out of ship based
activity and shore based maritime
related  activity  in  the  territorial
waters of Sri Lanka or any other
maritime zone, its fore-shore and
the coastal zone of Sri Lanka;

‘‘prescribed”  means  prescribed  by
regulations made under this Act;

42

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

‘‘public officer” shall have the same meaning
assigned to such expression under
the  Constitution;

‘‘sea” means the great body of salt water in

general, as opposed to land;

‘‘territorial waters” includes the territorial sea
and  the  historic  waters  of
Sri Lanka;

‘‘waters  of  Sri  Lanka”  includes  internal
waters  and  territorial  sea  of
Sri Lanka.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of
inconsistency

49. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

National Hydrographic Act, No. 7 of 2024

43

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

