THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

Part II of October 01, 2021

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 04.10.2021)

SAHANA  COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION  (INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Sahana Community Development Foundation

To be presented in Parliament by  Hon. Buddhika Pathirana,  M.P.
for Matara District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Sahana  Community  Development  Foundation
(Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SAHANA COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)

WHEREAS an Foundation called and known as the “Sahana
Community Development Foundation” has heretofore been
formed  in  for  the  purpose  of  effectually  carrying  out  and
transacating the objects and matters connected  with the said
Foundation  according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the said application :

BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Sahana  Community
Development  Foundation  (Incorporation)  Act,  No.            of
2021.

Short  title

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the Sahana
Community Development Foundation (hereinafter referred to
as the “Corporation”)  or shall hereafter be  admitted  members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Corporation”)  with  perpetual
succession, under the name and style of  “Sahana Community
Development Foundation” and by that name may sue and be
sued with full power and  authority to have and  use a common
seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporation
of  the  Sahana
Community
Development
Foundation

3.

(1) The general objects for which the Corporation is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

(a) to conduct workshops, discussions and seminars on

the matters of educational interest;

5

10

15

20

25

2

Sahana  Community  Development  Foundation
(Incorporation)

(b) to make provision to exhibit, improve and appreciate
the  cultural  talents  of  school  children  and  ward
certificates to talented school children;

(c) to implement a special training programme to build
up  a  generation  of  children  who  appreciate  values
and good conduct on practical terms;

(d) to  conduct leadership camps and workshops to school
children  to  build  up  leadership  qualities  and  to
provide necessary skills to equip them for practical
living;

(e) to  conduct  a  practical  programmes  which  develop
patriotism in order to develop a generation of school
children  with  physical  capability  through  a
programme  of  sanitation,  health  habits  and  a
programme for sports and physical education;

(f) to  organize  educational  tours,  shramadanas  and
workshops, aimed at protecting Sri Lanka’s heritate,
environment and forestry;

5

10

15

(g) to  support  and  encourage  the  services  provided  by

20

senior citizens movements ;

(h) to  give  full  support  and  assistance  to  informal,
education  programmes,  special  education
programmes and elders education pragrammes ;

25

(i) to  encourage  farmers  engaged  in  traditional  and
export oriented agricultural activities and to conduct
various  activities  to  enable  them  to  expand  their
knowledge  ;

(j) to  assist  in  various  programmes  implemented  for
granting necessary facilities for the ‘Ranaviru’ ;

Sahana  Community  Development  Foundation
(Incorporation)

3

(k) to  take  action  to  provide  self  employment  and
necessary  support  and  training  to  the  unemployed
youth  community;

(l) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign

5

institutions which have similar objects;

(m) to  develop  religious  places  belonging  to  all  the

religions;

(n) to  assist  in  the  activities  of  societies  established  in

Grama Niladhari divisions; and

10

(o) to assist and act for the welfare of the pensioners.

(2) In the implementation of the objectives of this Act as
are specified in subsection (1), the Corporation shall ensure
that such implementation is carried out without distinction
based  on  race,  caste,  religion,  language,  sex  or  political
opinion.

4. 

(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act and the rules of the Corporation, made
under  Section  6,  be  administered  by  a  Board  Directors
consisting  of  the  Chairman,  Secretary,  Treasurer  and  five
members elected in accordance with such rules.

Management
of  the  Affairs
of  the
Corporation

15

20

(2) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of his election.

25

(3) A member of the Board of Directors shall unless he
vacates his office earlier by death or resignation, hold office
for  a  period  of  four  years  reckoned  from  the  date  of  his
election.

4

Sahana  Community  Development  Foundation
(Incorporation)

(4) If any member of the Board of Directiors vacates his
office prior to the expiry of his term, his successor elected in
accordance with the rules of the Corporation shall hold office
only for the unexpired term of office of the member who he
succeeds.

5.  Subject  to  the  provision  of  this  Act  and  any  other
written  law  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform  and  execute  all  such  acts,  matters  and  things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the furtherance
of  its  objects  or  any  one  of  them,  including  the  power  to
acquire and hold property movable or immovable, to open,
operate and close bank account, to borrow or raise moneys
with  or  without  security,  to  receive  or  collect  grants  or
donations, to invest its funds to erect any building or structurs
on any land held by the Corporation, and to engage, employ
and dismiss, officers and servants required for the carrying
out of the objects of the Corporation.

General
Powers  of  the
Corporation

6.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any general meeting of the members and by a majority
of not less than two thirds of the members present and voting,
to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law, for all or any of the following
matters :—

Rules  of  the
Corporation

(a)

(b)

classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable  ;

the  procedure  to  be  observed  for  the  summoning
and holding of meetings of the  Corporation and of
the  Board  of  Directors,  the  quorum  the  for  such
meetings and the exercise and performance of their
powers and duties ;

(c)

the  appointment,  powers,  duties  and  functions  of
the  various  officers,  agents  and  servants  of  the
Corporation  ;

5

10

15

20

25

30

Sahana  Community  Development  Foundation
(Incorporation)

5

(d) qualifications  required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors ;

(e)

election of Board of Directors ; and

(f)

the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.

5

(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under  subsection (1).

(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to

10

the rules of the Corporation made under this section.

7. All  debts  and  liabilities  of  the  Foundation  existing
on the day preceding the date of commencemt of this Act,
shall  be  paid    and  discharged  by  the  Corporation  and  all
debts due to  and subscriptions and contributions  payable
to the foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Foundation

8.

(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the  credit  of  the  Corporation  in  one  or  more  banks  as  the
Board of Directors shall determine.

Fund  of  the
Corporation

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
the its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of  purchase, grant, lease,
gift,  testamentary  disposition  or  otherwise,  and  all  such

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

15

20

25

30

6

Sahana  Community  Development  Foundation
(Incorporation)

property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation made
under section 6 and the Corporation shall have  full power
to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of
the same.

10. No member  of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of  discharging  the  debts  and  liabilities  of  the  Corporation
be liable to any contribution exceeding the amount of such
membership fees as may be due form him to the Corporation.

Limitation  of
liability  of
members

Property
remaning  and
dissolution

11.

If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Corporation  there
remains after the satisfaction of  its debts and liabilities any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given
or transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which is or
are  by    its  or  their  rule  prohibited  from  distributing  any
income or property among its  members such institution or
institurions  shall  be  determined  by  the  members  of  the
Corporation at or immediately before, the time of dissolution
of the Corporation.

12.

(1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.

Audit  and
accounts  of
the
Corporation

5

10

15

20

(2) The  financial  year  of  the  Corporation  shall  be  the

25

calendar year.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by a qualified auditor
or auditors appointed  by the Board of Directors.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means —

30

(a)

an  individual  who  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or  of  any  other  institute  established  by  law,

Sahana  Community  Development  Foundation
(Incorporation)

7

possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant,  issued  by    the  Council  of  such
institute;  or

(b)

a  firm  of  Accountants  each  of  the  resident
partners  of  which,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or  of  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
institute.

13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of  the
Chairman and the  Secretary of the Corporation, who shall
sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation

5

10

15

14. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect  the  rights  of  the  Republic  or  any  body  politic  or
corporate.

20

15.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

8

Sahana  Community  Development  Foundation
(Incorporation)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

