PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

PUBLIC  FINANCIAL  MANAGEMENT

ACT, No. 44 OF 2024

[Certified on 08th of August, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 09, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs.114.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

1

[Certified on 08th of August, 2024]

L.D.—O. 48/2023

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISIONS TO STRENGTHEN ACCOUNTABILITY ,
OVERSIGHT, MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL OF PUBLIC FUNDS IN THE
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK WITH THE VIEW TO
IMPROVING  FISCAL  POLICY  FOR  BETTER  MACROECONOMIC
MANAGEMENT; TO CLARIFY INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES RELATED
TO  FINANCIAL  MANAGEMENT;  TO  STRENGTHEN  BUDGETARY
MANAGEMENT, TO FACILITATE PUBLIC SCRUTINY OF FISCAL POLICY
AND PERFORMANCE; TO REPEAL THE SECTIONS 8 AND 14 OF PART II
OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 38 OF 1971; TO REPEAL THE FISCAL
MANAGEMENT (RESPONSIBILITY) ACT, NO. 3 OF 2003 AND TO
PROVIDE FOR  MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.  (1)  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Public  Financial

Management Act, No. 44 of 2024.

Short  title  and
date  of
operation

(2) All the provisions of this Act other than the provisions
specified in subsection (3), shall come into operation on the
date on which the Bill becomes an Act of Parliament.

(3) The Minister of Finance shall for the implementation
of the provisions specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
subsection, appoint such date or dates by Order published
in the Gazette -

(a)

the  date  or  dates  from  which  the  provisions  of
paragraph  (f)  of  subsection  (5)  of  section  11,
subsection  (1)  of  section  17,  paragraph  (b)  of
subsection  (2)  of  section  18,  section  36  and
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 47 shall
come into operation:

2

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

Provided that, the provisions of paragraph (f)
of  subsection  (5)  of  section  11  shall  come  into
operation on a date not later than thirtieth day of
June 2025; and

(b)

the  date  from  which  the  provisions  of  subsection
(2) of section 34 shall apply in respect of the entities
specified in subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (a) of
subsection (2) of section 3.

Objects  of  the
Act

2. The objects of this Act shall be –

(a)

(b)

to  set  out  standards,  requirements,  rules,  and
procedures  for  transparency,  accountability,
discipline, effectiveness, efficiency, and economy
in the management of the public finance including
the  revenues,  expenditures,  commitments,
financing  arrangements,  equity,  assets  and
liabilities;

the 

implementation  of 

to  specify  the  requirements  and  procedures  to  be
adhered  to,  in  the  management  of  public  finance
fiscal
including 
responsibility  objectives  and  rules,  planning,
formulation,  adoption  and  implementation  of
annual  budget  along  with  the  processes  of
monitoring,  evaluation,  internal  controls,
accounting,  and  reporting;  and

(c)

to  specify  performance  and  accountability
requirements.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

3

PART I

APPLICATION OF THE ACT

3. (1) In addition to the provisions enshrined in Articles
148,  149,  150,  151  and  152  of  the  Constitution,  the
provisions of this Act, any regulation, and directive made
thereunder, unless specifically excluded from this Act, shall
apply to the management of the public finance.

Application  of
the  provisions  of
this  Act

(2) The provisions of this Act shall apply to the entities

and persons specified below -

(a)

the following entities (hereinafter referred to as the
“public entities”): -

(i) budgetary  entities;

(ii) Statutory Funds and Trusts to which public

finances are allocated;

(iii) State-Owned Enterprises; and

(iv) Provincial  Councils,  Provincial  Ministries,
Provincial  Departments,  other  Institutions
functioning  under  the  Provincial  Councils,
and Local Authorities in terms of the relevant
written laws;

(b) Officers and employees of public entities to whom
a power or duty is conferred, delegated or assigned
under this Act or any regulation made thereunder,
including a Chief Accounting Officer, Accounting
Officer  or  a  competent  authority  referred  to  in
Part VI of this Act.

4

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(3) Every public entity and persons referred to in
subsection  (2)  in  respect  of  which  this  Act
applies,  shall  notwithstanding  anything  to
the  contrary  in  the  provisions  of  any  other
written  law,  comply  with  the  provisions  of
this Act in managing public funds allocated
to or levied by any such public entity under
any written law.

PART II

POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE MINISTER OF FINANCE

AND OTHER AUTHORITIES

Powers,  duties
and  functions  of
the  Minister  of
Finance  under
this  Act

4. (1) The Minister to whom the subject of Finance has
been assigned under Article 44 or 45 of the Constitution (in
this  Act  referred  to  as  the  “Minister  of  Finance”)  shall  in
addition to the powers conferred under Article 150 of the
Constitution,  be responsible for  –

(a) developing  policies 

that  achieve 

fiscal
sustainability  and  effective  management  of  fiscal
risks including the identification of the sources of
fiscal  risks  and    publication  of  information  in
relation to the same;

(b)

ensuring compliance with the fiscal responsibility
requirements under Part III of this Act;

(c) managing the preparation of the annual budget and
monitoring  its  implementation  along  with  the
overall  supervision  on  collecting  revenues,
management  of  the  expenditure,  public  debt  and
the Government’s cash and liquidity position;

(d)

the general  oversight of all the financial operations
of  the  Government  along  with  the  extent  of  the
financial oversight in relation to the State-Owned
Enterprises, as may be prescribed; and

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

5

(e)

the implementation of provisions of this Act.

(2) The Minister of Finance shall  -

(a)

carry out any other  powers  and functions assigned
to the Minister of Finance by this Act or any other
written law; and

(b) be  accountable  to  Parliament  for  the  effective
application  of  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and
regulations made under this Act.

(3)  The Minister of Finance may, by Order published in
the Gazette, delegate to the Secretary to the Treasury any
power conferred on the Minister of Finance by this Act except
under subsection (1) of section 28, subsection (3) of section
32, subsection (4) of section 39, section 56 and section 67,
subject  to  the  conditions,  reservations  and  restrictions,  as
may be specified in that Order.

5.  (1)  The  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister  of
Finance  appointed  by  the  President  in  terms  of  paragraph
(1) of Article 52 of the Constitution, shall be the head of the
General Treasury (in this Act referred to as the “Secretary to
the Treasury”).

Powers,  duties,
and  functions  of
the  Secretary  to
the  Treasury

(2)  In  addition  to  the  powers,  duties,  functions  and
responsibilities  assigned  by  any  other  written  law,  the
Secretary to the Treasury, for the purpose of achieving the
objects of this Act, shall –

(a)

(b)

assist  the  Minister  of  Finance  to  perform  his
functions under this Act;

assist the Minister of Finance for preparation and
execution of the annual budget;

6

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(c) manage  the  Treasury  cash  flow  and  oversee  the
management  of  the  official  bank  accounts
maintained under the Treasury single account;

(d)

ensure compliance with statutory requirements on
the preparation of annual financial statements and
reports of the Government, their submission to the
Auditor-General,  and  dissemination  of  related
information to the general public;

(e) monitor the implementation and evaluate the results
of  public  investment  projects  and  public-private
partnership projects;

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

(j)

subject to the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers,
formulate policies and strategies for the effective
management  and  overall  supervision  of  State-
Owned Enterprises;

assist the Minister of Finance to manage the public
sector cadre and remuneration in compliance with
the  national  remuneration  policy;

formulate, develop, review, and update directives
for the financial management, management of assets
and   internal audit management of public entities;

enter  into  agreement  with  foreign  Governments,
international organizations or other donor agencies
on behalf of the Government upon the approval of
the Cabinet of Ministers; and

carry out any other powers and functions assigned
to the Secretary to the Treasury under this Act and
by any other written law, which are not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

7

6. (1) The Secretary to the Treasury may in writing and
subject  to  such  conditions  as  may  be  specified  therein,
delegate to the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury or any officer
not  below  the  rank  of  a  Director-General  in  the  General
Treasury, the powers, duties and functions conferred to the
Secretary to the Treasury under section 5 of this Act.

Delegation  of
powers,  duties
and  functions  of
the  Secretary  to
the  Treasury

(2) The Secretary to the Treasury may, notwithstanding
any  delegation  made  under  subsection  (1),  by  himself,
exercise, perform or discharge any power, duty or function
so  delegated  and  may  at  any  time  revoke  any  such
delegation.

(3)  Notwithstanding the Secretary to the Treasury having
ceased  to  hold  office,  any  delegation  made  under
subsection (1) shall continue in force.

7.  The  powers,  duties,  and  functions  of  the  Chief
Accounting  Officer,  Accounting  Officer  and  a  Revenue
Accounting Officer under this Act shall be as prescribed.

Powers,  duties,
and  functions  of
the  Chief
Accounting
Officer,  &c.

8. (1) The Minister of Finance shall appoint a Revenue
Management Committee consisting of members as specified
in subsection (2) which shall be responsible for -

Revenue
Management
Committee

(a) developing  and  formulating  revenue  strategies
consistent  with  the  fiscal  strategy  statement
specified in section 11; and

(b) providing  strategic  advice  to  public  entities  that

generate revenue.

(2) The Revenue Management Committee shall consist

of –

8

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(a)

the following ex-officio members namely –

(i)

the Secretary to the Treasury who shall be the
Chairperson;

(ii)

a Deputy Secretary to the Treasury in charge
of the subject of fiscal policy;

(iii)

the  Commissioner-General  of  Inland
Revenue;

(iv)

the Director-General of Customs;

(v)

the Commissioner-General of Excise;

(vi)

the  Director  General  of  the  Department  in
charge of the subject of Treasury Operations;

(vii)

the  Director-General  of  the  Department  in
charge of the subject of Fiscal Policy; and

(b)

two  other  members  appointed  by  the  Minister  of
Finance  from  among  persons  who  have  achieved
eminence in the field of revenue management.

(3)  The Secretary to the Revenue Management Committee
shall  be  an  officer  of  the  Department  responsible  for  the
subject of fiscal policy, nominated by the Secretary to the
Treasury.

(4) An appointed member of the Revenue Management
Committee  may  resign  from  such  Committee  by  a  letter
addressed to the Minister of Finance.

(5)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  subsection  (4),  an
appointed member of the Revenue Management Committee
shall serve on such Committee for a period of three years
and shall be eligible for reappointment.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

9

(6)  The  functions  of  the  Revenue  Management
Committee, and the manner of the classification, collection,
and  deposit  of  the  revenue,  refund  from  revenue  and
reporting requirements shall be as prescribed.

(7) The functions of the Revenue Management Committee
shall be carried out, subject to any applicable written law, in
such  manner  so  as  not  to  create  any  conflict  between  the
Revenue  Management  Committee  and  functions  being
carried out by any public entity specified in paragraph (a) of
subsection (2) of section 3.

PART III

FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY

9. The Government shall manage its fiscal policy in an
accountable,  efficient,  fair,  transparent,  and  sustainable
manner  in  line  with  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution,  to
ensure  macroeconomic  stability  and  economic  growth  of
the  country  and  intergenerational  equity.

Fiscal
responsibility  of
the  Government

10.  The  objectives  underlying  responsible  fiscal
management which need to be adhered to by the Government
shall be as follows: -

Objectives
underlying
responsible  fiscal
management

(a)

(b)

ensure  that  public  debt  is  reduced  to,  and
maintained at, a sustainable level;

create and maintain fiscal buffers that secure against
future shocks;

(c) manage  and  mitigate  fiscal  risks  in  a  prudent

manner;

10

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(d)

(e)

ensure discipline, transparency, and accountability
in fiscal management;

lengthen  the  time  horizon  of  fiscal  planning  by
establishing requirements for the development and
publication of an annual fiscal strategy statement
and  rolling  five-years  medium-term  fiscal
framework; and

(f)

facilitate  effective  scrutiny  of  the  fiscal
performance of the Government.

Fiscal  strategy
statement

11. (1) The fiscal strategy of the Government shall comply
with  the  fiscal  responsibility  framework  specified  in  this
Part  to  ensure  achievement  of  the  objectives  specified  in
section 10 and shall be set out in the fiscal strategy statement.

(2) The fiscal strategy statement shall be prepared by the
Minister  of  Finance  annually  and  be  submitted  it  to  the
Cabinet of Ministers for approval.

(3) Upon obtaining approval of the Cabinet of Ministers
under subsection (2), the fiscal strategy statement shall be
announced by the Minister of Finance at Parliament on or
before thirtieth day of June of each year.  Annual budget for
the next year shall be prepared based on such fiscal strategy
statement. The fiscal strategy statement shall be published
on  the  official  website  of  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister  of
Finance  upon  the  announcement  made  by  the  Minister  of
Finance.

(4) The purpose of the fiscal strategy statement shall be

to –

(a) provide the Parliament and the public with a formal
statement  of  the  Government’s  fiscal  strategy
before the annual budget is prepared;

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

11

(b) provide strategic guidance for the upcoming annual

budget;

(c)

(d)

establish the basis upon which fiscal performance
shall  be  evaluated  objectively;

strengthen Parliamentary oversight of performance
against the Government’s fiscal strategy; and

(e)

enhance fiscal transparency and accountability.

(5) The fiscal strategy statement shall, at a minimum –

(a)

(b)

(c)

specify  the  Government’s  fiscal  targets  and  the
policies being implemented to ensure achievement
of such targets;

include  proposed  timeframe  for  the  reduction  of
public debt to a sustainable level;

explain  how  the  Government’s  fiscal  targets  and
policies  are  consistent  with  the  objectives  of
responsible fiscal management;

(d)

include the medium-term fiscal framework specified
in section 12;

(e) provide an assessment of performance against the

fiscal strategy, including –

(i)

an assessment of compliance with the fiscal
targets  for  the  preceding  financial  year,
including  an  explanation  of  any  non-
compliance with such targets;

12

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(ii)

an assessment of expected compliance with
the fiscal targets for the current financial year;

(iii)

(iv)

an assessment of expected compliance with
the fiscal targets for the next financial year
and the four succeeding years; and

an assessment of risks of non-compliance with
the fiscal targets for the current financial year
and the next financial year;

(f)

specify the main sources of fiscal risks against to
the attainment of the objectives specified in section
10  and  the  estimate  of  the  fiscal  impact  of  such
fiscal risks; and

(g) disclose  the  macroeconomic  impact  of  fiscal

decisions taken over the past three years.

Medium-term
fiscal  framework

12. (1) The Minister of Finance shall ensure preparation
of a medium-term fiscal framework for the upcoming financial
year and for the four succeeding financial years which shall
be  approved  and  published  within  the  fiscal  strategy
statement referred to in section 11.

(2)  The medium-term fiscal framework shall include, at a

minimum -

(a)

(b)

a  primary  balance  target  consistent  with  the  debt
reduction objectives of the Government expressed
as  a  percentage  of  the  forecast  nominal  gross
domestic  product;

a primary expenditure ceiling of the Government
expressed  in  Sri  Lankan  rupees  calculated  under
section 15; and

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

13

(c)

the fiscal aggregate projections and supplementary
targets of the Government for the rolling five-years
horizon,  together  with  the  economic  and  other
assumptions used to prepare these projections.

(3)  For  the  purpose  of  achieving  a  sustainable  level  of
public  debt,  the  medium-term  fiscal  framework  shall
determine an annual primary balance target as specified in
section  14,  and  a  primary  expenditure  ceiling  within  the
limit as specified in section 15.

(4)  The  annual  budget  shall  be  in  accordance  with  the
primary balance   target and the primary expenditure ceiling
set out in the medium-term fiscal framework as specified in
subsection (2).

13.  (1)  The  debt  reduction  objective  referred  to  in
paragraph (a) of section 10 requires the Government to ensure
that  public  debt  shall  be  reduced  to  and  maintained  at  a
sustainable  level  adhering  to  the  limits  and  time  frame
specified  in  the  fiscal  strategy  statement  pursuant  to  the
paragraph (b) of subsection (5) of section 11.

Debt  reduction
objective

(2) The Minister of Finance shall ensure the preparation
and  publication  of  a  debt  sustainability  analysis  on  an
annual  basis  that  takes  account  of  the  fiscal  performance
and any revisions that may be required to the fiscal strategy
statement or the medium-term fiscal framework as specified
under sections 11 and 12, respectively.

14. (1) The primary balance target set by the Minister of
Finance  in  the  medium-term  fiscal  framework  for  the
upcoming financial year and the four succeeding financial
years,  consistent  with  the  debt  reduction  objective,  shall
be–

Primary  balance
target

14

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(a)

served as a medium-term fiscal anchor to address
all  aspects  of  fiscal  planning  and  policy
development;  and

(b) updated  annually  to  reflect  observed  fiscal
outcomes and to ensure ongoing consistency with
the debt reduction objective in section 10.

(2)  In  case  of  non-compliance  or  anticipated  non-
compliance with the primary balance target included in the
medium-term fiscal framework, the Minister of Finance shall
submit to Parliament and publish within six weeks from the
date of such non-compliance or anticipation as the case may
be, the following:-

(a)

a  report  containing  an  assessment  explaining  the
reasons  for  non-compliance  with  the  primary
balance  target;

(b)

an updated medium-term fiscal framework; and

(c)

a  fiscal  plan  to  return  to  compliance  with  the
primary balance target in the current and the next
financial year in case of non-compliance with the
primary balance target.

Primary
expenditure  of
the  Government

15. (1) The primary expenditure of the Government shall
not  exceed  thirteen  per  centum  of  the  estimated  nominal
gross domestic product for the relevant financial year.

(2)  The  primary  expenditure  ceiling  specified  in  the
medium-term fiscal framework  for the upcoming financial
year and for the four succeeding financial years expressed as
a  nominal  amount  calculated  with  reference  to  forecast
nominal gross domestic product calculated by the Ministry

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

15

of the Minister of Finance as the case may be, shall also be
consistent  with  the  primary  balance  target  specified  in
section  14.

(3)  The  primary  expenditure  ceiling  calculated  as  per

subsection (2) –

(a)

(b)

for  the  upcoming  financial  year  shall  be  binding
for  the  annual  budget  for  the  upcoming  financial
year  at  the  time  of  its  submission,  approval,  and
execution;

for  the  four  succeeding  financial  years  shall  be
updated  on  an  annual  basis  to  reflect  the  latest
estimates for nominal gross domestic product for
the relevant financial years and to ensure ongoing
consistency  with  the  primary  balance  target
specified in section 14.

(4) The  primary  expenditure  ceiling  may  be  initially
reviewed no sooner after five years from the date of coming
into operation of this Act, and be reviewed every five years
thereafter,  and  shall  be  updated  to  be  consistent  with  the
primary balance target and the debt reduction objective.

16.  (1)  Any  deviation  from  the  primary  expenditure
ceiling specified in the medium-term fiscal framework for
any financial year, may be made by the Government only
under the circumstances specified in subsection (2) and shall
be subject to the procedures specified in subsection (3).

Deviation  from
the  primary
expenditure
ceiling

(2) The Government may exceed the primary expenditure
ceiling specified in the medium-term fiscal framework only
in  the  unanticipated  events  or  natural  disaster  posing
significant  threats  to  national  security,  national  economic

16

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

security or the public health and safety of the country which
necessitate  additional,  temporary  and  targeted  public
expenditure  beyond  any  contingencies  included  in  the
annual  budget.

(3) Where any situation specified in subsection (2) arises
or is likely to arise that requires expenditure in excess of the
primary expenditure ceiling specified in the medium-term
fiscal framework, the Minister of Finance shall request by
way  of  resolution,  the  approval  of  Parliament  for  the
deviation  from  the  primary  expenditure  ceiling  and
supplementary  appropriations  in  excess  of  the  primary
expenditure  ceiling  specified  in  the  medium-term  fiscal
framework.

(4)  The  request  referred  to  in  subsection  (3)  shall  be

accompanied by, at a minimum –

(a)

(b)

a  statement  explaining  the  circumstances  in
consequence of which the need for such deviation
arose,  including  supporting  data,  and  how  those
circumstances justify the deviation;

a recovery plan that shall contain information and
targeted  actions  to  be  taken  to  manage  the
circumstances specified in subsection (2) including
additional spending, and actions to be taken by the
Minister of Finance to return to compliance with
the primary expenditure ceiling, and the timeframe
for such return to compliance;

(c)

a  supplementary  estimate  proposal  in  line  with
section 26; and

(d)

an updated medium-term fiscal framework.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

17

(5)  The  documents  specified  in  subsection  (4)  shall  be
published  on  the  official  website  of  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister of Finance.

17. (1) The aggregate stock of outstanding Government
guarantees at the end of each financial year shall not exceed
7.5  per  centum  of  the  average  gross  domestic  product
(hereinafter referred to as the “guarantee limit”) of the relevant
financial year and preceding two financial years.

Guarantee  limit

(2) The guarantee limit specified in subsection (1) shall
be reviewed every five years after the date of coming into
operation of this Act and be updated to ensure consistency
with  the  debt  reduction  objective  specified  in  the  fiscal
strategy statement.

(3) In case of a breach of the guarantee limit specified in
subsection  (1),  the  Minister  of  Finance  shall  submit  to
Parliament and publish on the official website of the Ministry
of the Minister of Finance a report specifying, at a minimum-

(a)

the reason for such breach; and

(b)

actions  to  ensure  compliance  with  the  guarantee
limit in the future.

PART IV

PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ANNUAL BUDGET

18. (1) The annual budget shall include the estimates of
expenditure of the public entities which are allocated to a
Head of Expenditure number.

Scope  of  the
annual  budget

(2)  The annual budget shall –

18

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(a) be presented in the form of the appropriations by

Head of Expenditure; and

(b) be  classified  in  line  with  the  internationally

accepted practices.

(3)  The  Appropriation  Act  shall  envisage  expenditure
from  the  Consolidated  Fund  subject  to  Articles  150,  151
and 152 of the Constitution.

Compliance  with
fiscal
responsibility
requirements

19.  (1)  The  Appropriation  Bill  and  the  draft  annual
budget estimates presented to Parliament shall be consistent
with the fiscal strategy statement and the medium-term fiscal
framework developed in accordance with the provisions of
this Act.

Annual  budget
document  and
its
accompanying
documents

(2) The draft annual budget estimates shall be presented

in the manner as may be prescribed.

20. (1) The annual budget document shall consist of –

(a)

the  estimates  of  revenue  and  expenditure  (in  this
Act referred to as the “annual budget estimates”) in
the forms as may be prescribed; and

(b)

the Appropriation Bill that includes inter-alia, the
estimates of expenditure, and borrowing ceilings.

(2) The annual budget document shall be accompanied

by –

(a) budget  speech  summarizing  the  contents  of  the
annual  budget  and  the  overall  thrust  of  the
Government’s fiscal policy;

(b)

a  public-friendly  version  of  the  annual  budget

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

19

containing easy-to-understand summary of the main
features of the annual budget;

(c)

the  fiscal  strategy  statement  and  the  budget,
economic and fiscal position report;

(d) medium-term  debt  management  strategy  and

annual borrowing plan;

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

the  list  of  ongoing  and  newly  approved  public
investment  projects,  including  public-private
partnership projects in accordance with subsection
(1) of section 45;

the  list  of  outstanding  loans  and  outstanding
guarantees provided by the Government and other
contingent liabilities of the Government including
those related to public-private partnership projects;

a  summary  of  public  service  employment  across
budgetary  entities;

a statement of tax expenditures including the total
cost of existing tax expenditures and the disclosure
of new tax expenditures; and

any  other  documents  or  information  as  required
under this Act or any other written law or as may
deemed appropriate by the Minister of Finance.

21. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other written law, every budgetary entity shall prepare and
submit  their  budget  estimates  in  line  with  the  budget  call
circular, not later than thirty first day of July of the financial
year  preceding  the  year  for  which  the  annual  budget  is
prepared.

Annual  budget
process

20

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(2) The budget call circular shall -

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

include expenditure ceilings which are binding for
the  financial  year,  consistent  with  the  primary
expenditure ceiling specified in the medium-term
fiscal framework as required under section 12;

include detailed policy guidance and list the main
actions to be complied with and information to be
provided  by  public  entities  within  the  annual
budget process and set out the timeframe for such
actions in line with this section;

include the public investment programme approved
by the Minister of Finance; and

include other instructions and information as may
be  deemed  necessary  by  the  Secretary  to  the
Treasury.

(3) The Minister of Finance shall obtain the approval of
the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  for  the  annual  budget  document
prior to submitting it to the Parliament.

(4)  The  Minister  of  Finance  shall  submit  the
Appropriation Bill for the forthcoming financial year to the
Parliament not later than fifteenth day of October of the year
preceding the year for which the annual budget is prepared.

(5)  The  Minister  of  Finance  shall  submit  the  annual
budget document under paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection
(1) of section 20 accompanied with the documents specified
under subsection (2) of section 20 to the Parliament not later
than  fifteenth  day  of  November  of  the  year  of  which  the
annual budget is prepared and shall publish the draft annual
budget document and documents accompanying thereto on
the same day, in the official website of the Ministry of the
Minister of Finance.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

21

(6)  The  Secretary  to  the  Treasury  shall  announce  the
budget process pertaining to the presentation and approval
of Appropriation Bill for the succeeding year, with specific
dates,  in  consultation  with  the  Secretary  General  of
Parliament and with the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers.

22. (1) The Minister of Finance shall be responsible for

ensuring the -

(a)

implementation of the annual budget process;

(b) preparation of the Appropriation Bill and the annual

budget estimates; and

(c) preparation  of  the  annual  budget  document  in
accordance with the medium-term fiscal framework
and budgetary framework.

(2) The Secretary to the Treasury shall be responsible for
issuing the budget call circular not later than thirtieth day of
June of the financial year preceding the year for which the
annual budget is prepared.

Responsibilities
of  the  Minister
of  Finance  and
the  Secretary  to
the  Treasury  in
the  annual
budget  process

23.  (1)  In  the  event  the  Appropriation  Bill  for  the
succeeding  year  is  not  approved  by  Parliament  by  thirty
first day of December of the current year, the Minister of
Finance shall submit a vote on account to Parliament, under
which  the  Parliament  shall  allocate  funds  for  ongoing
projects and continuously provide specified public services
which need to be maintained.

Vote  on
Account

(2) The period for which expenditure is allocated under
the vote on account shall not exceed four months and shall
be  followed  by  the  adoption  of  the  Appropriation  Act
integrating the expenditure of the vote on account.

Virement
procedure

22

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

PART V

ADJUSTMENTS TO THE ANNUAL BUDGET DURING THE YEAR

24.  (1)  Transfer  of  an  allocation  within  a  Head  of
Expenditure  in  annual  Appropriation  Act  shall  be  in
compliance with the provisions in such Appropriation Act,
subject to the provisions of subsections (2), (3) and (4) of
this  section  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Virement
Procedure”).

(2)   Transfer of unexpended budget allocation shall not

be allowed –

(a)

from one Head of Expenditure to another Head of
Expenditure;  or

(b)

from capital expenditure to recurrent expenditure.

(3)  Restrictions  on  the  use  of  virement  procedure  in
addition to those specified in subsection (2) shall as may be
prescribed.

(4)  The  transfer  of  allocation  using  the  virement
procedure, if any, effected by all budgetary entities shall be
reported to the Parliament within six months from the date
of the said transfer by the Minister of Finance. Procedures of
such reporting shall as may be prescribed.

Annual  budget
reserve

25.  (1)  The  Appropriation  Act  may  include  an
appropriation  for  contingencies  which  shall  be  called  and
known as the annual budget reserve for the financial year.

(2) The amount appropriated for the annual budget reserve
shall not exceed two per centum of the proposed estimate of
primary expenditure.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

23

(3)  The  funds  in  the  annual  budget  reserve  may  be
allocated  to  cover      urgent,  unforeseen  and  unavoidable
requirements as defined in written laws and the expenditure
where existing allocations are insufficient.

(4) Any allocation from the annual budget reserve shall
be  approved  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  the
Appropriation Act and shall be reported to Parliament within
two months.

26.  (1)  A  supplementary  estimate  proposal  shall  be
submitted to the Parliament for approval in the manner as
may  be  prescribed  upon  the  occurrence  of  the  following
conditions:  -

Supplementary
Estimates

(a) unforeseen and unavoidable circumstances such as
major economic downturn, severe external shocks,
natural  disaster,  emergence  of  major  contingent
liabilities  or  any  such  other  eventuality  in  the
opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers;

(b)

it becomes necessary for a budgetary entity to incur
additional  expenditure  during  a  year  that  is  not
covered  by  the  Head  of  Expenditure  in  the
Appropriation Act approved by the Parliament; and

(c)

it is not possible for such expenditure to be provided
through  –

(i)

a  virement  procedure  as  provided  for  in
section  24;

(ii)

the  Contingencies  Fund  established  under
Article 151 of the Constitution; or

(iii)

an allocation from the annual budget reserve
as provided for in section 25.

24

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(2)  The  supplementary  estimate  proposal  under

subsection (1) shall include -

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

an overview of the recent macroeconomic and fiscal
developments;

an updated forecasts of revenues and expenditures
of the annual budget;

an explanation of the changes to appropriations for
individual Heads of Expenditure; and

the  source  of  additional  financing  and  any  other
information as may be prescribed.

(3)  The  request  for  additional  expenditure  under
subsection (1) shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers
prior to submitting it to Parliament.

Excess
Expenditure

27. (1) Where at the close of Government accounts for
any  financial  year,  it  is  found  that  the  budget  allocations
have been expended -

(a)

in  excess  of  the  amount  appropriated  by  the
Appropriation Act for the relevant year, or from the
Contingencies Fund or supplementary estimate; or

(b)

for a purpose for which the budget allocation has
not been made,

such  excessive  amount  shall  be  treated  as  unauthorized
excess expenditure.

(2) In the events specified in subsection (1), the relevant
budgetary  entity  shall  place  before  the  Parliament  a

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

25

statement  on  excess  expenditure  attached  to  the  annual
financial statement which shall include the information as
may be prescribed not later than ninety days after the closure
of the financial year.

(3)  An unauthorized excess expenditure shall be a ground

for a disciplinary action against the responsible officers.

PART VI

BUDGET EXECUTION

28. (1) Any financial commitment or liability, including
contingent  liability,  shall  not  be  incurred  by  a  budgetary
entity  without  a  warrant  authorizing  expenditure  by  the
Minister  of  Finance  issued  under  Article  150  of  the
Constitution.

Warrants

(2)  The  Chief  Accounting  Officer  or  the  Accounting
Officer of a public entity shall be responsible for ensuring
that the expenditure shall be in conformity with the authority
contained in the warrant. Any expenditure not in conformity
with  the  authority  shall  be  disallowed  by  the  Secretary  to
the  Treasury,  and  may  be  surcharged  on  the  responsible
officers.

(3) The warrants authorizing expenditure shall expire at

the end of the financial year to which they relate.

29. (1) Any expenditure of public funds shall be made

subject to the following steps: -

Expenditure
control  system

(a) prior authorization from the competent authority;

(b) prior approval from the competent authority;

26

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(c)

commitment by the competent authority;

(d)

certification by the competent authority; and

(e) payment by the relevant public entity.

(2) For the purpose of this section, competent authority
means any officer who has been delegated functions of the
authorization,  approval,  commitment,  certification  or
payment by the Accounting Officer of the relevant public
entity.

(3) The Accounting Officers may delegate functions either
generally or with regard to individual transactions, and shall
be  responsible  for  ensuring  the  competence  to  whom  the
authority is delegated and the adequacy of internal checks
in the system of delegation.

(4)  Approvals  of  commitments  shall  be  subject  to  the
availability of sufficient unencumbered appropriation in the
annual budget line against which the commitments are being
made.

(5) The obligation to pay shall arise when works, goods
or services received by the Competent Authority from third
parties.

(6) Any contract or other arrangement, which may incur
an expenditure commitment, entered or made by a budgetary
entity  shall  be  entered  into  the  financial  management
information system, in the manner as shall be prescribed.

(7)  The  Minister  of  Finance  shall  establish  a  clearance
strategy  to  continuously  reduce  arrears  of  expenditure
commitments  which  exist  on  the  date  of  the  coming  into
operation of this Act, and enhance mechanisms to prevent
the accumulation of arrears.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

27

30. (1) The authority to spend moneys appropriated under
the annual budget shall expire and cease to have effect at
the end of the financial year to which such annual budget
relates.

Expiry  of  annual
budget  and
lapsed  payment

(2) In case of a claim not settled prior to thirty first day of
December of a financial year in which the claim arose, such
claim  shall  be  settled  against  corresponding  “code  of
expenditure” in the following financial year. Procedure for
such settlement shall be as prescribed.

31. (1) The Minister of Finance shall ensure that the multi-
year  expenditure  commitments  proposed  in  the  annual
budget of any relevant year are consistent with the medium-
term fiscal framework.

Multi-year
expenditure
commitments

(2)  The  Chief  Accounting  Officer  of  the  respective
budgetary entity shall obtain approval from the Cabinet of
Ministers  prior  to  entering  into  multi-year  expenditure
commitments.

(3)  For  the  purpose  of  this  section,  “multi-year
expenditure  commitments”  means  an  expenditure
commitment the settlement of which requires appropriation
from the Appropriation Acts of the financial years succeeding
the  relevant  financial  year  and  shall  include  public
investment projects, related recurrent costs, obligations of
the  Government  under  public–private  partnership  projects
and other investments and financing arrangements.

32.  (1)  Every  public  entity  shall  procure  the  goods,
services,  works,  consultancy  services  and  information
systems  in  compliance  with  the  procurement  procedures
specified in written laws and guidelines issued from time to
time by the National Procurement Commission.

Procurement

28

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(2) (a) Every public entity specified in subparagraph (i)

of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3 shall be required

to prepare and provide to the Secretary to the Treasury its

annual procurement plans.

(b)  Every  public  entity  specified  in  subparagraphs  (ii)

and (iii) of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3 shall

be required to prepare and provide their annual procurement

plans to the respective Chief Accounting Officer.

(3) The  National  Procurement  Commission  may,  if  it

deems  necessary,  formulate  and  publish  in  the  Gazette

specific  guidelines  for  State  Owned  Enterprises  and

Provincial  Councils.

Internal  audit

33.  (1)  Every  Chief  Accounting  Officer  or  Accounting

Officer or governing body of a public entity in respect of

which an internal auditor has been appointed shall ensure

that the internal auditor exercises functions independently

and  is  not  assigned  with  a  function  that  may  amount  to

conflict of interest.

(2)  The internal auditor shall follow the directives issued

under  subsection  (3)  and  shall  submit  a  report  setting  out

such findings on the respective Head of Expenditure to the

Chief Accounting Officer or Accounting Officer or governing

body of the relevant public entity and copies of such report

shall  be  forwarded  to  the  Department  responsible  for  the

subject of Audit Management in terms of the provisions of

sections  40  and  41  of  the  National  Audit  Act,  No.  19  of

2018.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

29

(3) The Secretary to the Treasury shall issue directives
with regards to strengthening of internal controls, internal
audits and to audit management committees of public entities.

PART VII

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

34.  (1)  (a)  There  shall  be  established  a  Committee  on
Cash  Flow  Management  chaired  by  the  Secretary  to  the
Treasury and consisting of Deputy Secretaries, and Heads of
the  Departments  in  the  Treasury  and  Heads  of  following
revenue Departments: -

Treasury  cash
flow
management  and
treasury  single
account  system

(i) Director-General of Customs;

(ii) Commissioner-General  of  Inland  Revenue;

and

(iii) Commissioner-General of Excise.

(b) The powers, duties and functions, responsibilities
and operation of the Committee specified in paragraph (a)
shall be as prescribed.

(2) There shall be a treasury single account to maintain
the  revenue  and  expenditure  of  the  Consolidated  Fund,
which shall be an integrated system of bank accounts, into
which all Government cash including moneys received by
the public entities referred to in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of
paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3 shall be deposited
and  from  which  expenditure  of  the  Government  and  such
public  entities  shall  be  made  to  enable  public  funds  to  be
managed in a consolidated manner.

30

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

Opening  and
closing  of  bank
accounts  for  the
allocation  of
public  finance

35.  (1)  The  Secretary  to  the  Treasury  or  an  officer
authorized  in  that  behalf  by  the  Secretary  to  the  Treasury
shall  authorize  the  opening,  maintenance  and  closure  of
official  bank  accounts  for  the  purpose  of  managing  the
Government’s cash and liquidity requirements.

(2) The governing body of a public entity which is not
subject to the treasury single account, shall have power to
open, maintain, and close bank accounts for the purpose of
allocating public finance of such public entity in terms of
the relevant written law under which such public entity is
established.

(3)  The  details  on  the  opening  and  closing  of  official
bank  accounts  referred  to  in  subsection  (1),  shall  be  as
prescribed.

Use  of
information  and
communication
technology

36. (1) There shall be developed an effective computerized
systems for carrying out the functions of the General Treasury
and the functions specified in this Act.

Foreign  grants
and  Domestic
grants  made  to
the  Government

(2) The performance, security, safety and accuracy of the
public  entity’s  computerized  financial  management  and
other information systems shall be ensured by periodic review
and evaluation as prescribed.

37. (1) The Secretary to the Treasury shall, subject to the
approval of the Cabinet of Ministers have the authority to
sign  all  agreements  with  foreign  governments,  or
international  organizations  in  respect  of  foreign  grants  or
receive  any  grant  from  other  foreign  donors  or  domestic
donors on behalf of the Government, except where a public
entity is authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers in writing to
sign such agreements and receive such grants.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

31

(2) Funds received as grants to the Government from a

foreign  government,  international  organization,  or  other

foreign  donor  (in  this  section  referred  to  as  the  “foreign

grants”) or domestic donor shall be –

(a)

credited to the Consolidated Fund; and

(b)

incorporated in the draft annual budget of the public

entity responsible for executing the grant.

(3)  Any public entity which receives grant in any kind

under this section shall determine and record the monetary

value of such grant in accordance with the relevant written

law.

(4)  The  requirements  and  procedures  for  the  receipt  of

foreign grants or domestic grants, as the case may be, shall

be as prescribed.

38. (1) The management of the non-financial assets of the

public entities referred to in subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (iii)

of  paragraph  (a)  of  subsection  (2)  of  section  3  including

their identification, classification, valuation, utilization, and

disposal shall be governed subject to any relevant written

Asset
management

law.

(2) The proceeds of the sale of any movable or immovable

property or any exclusive privilege belonging to a budgetary

entity shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund and shall

be dealt with in the manner as may be prescribed.

32

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

PART VIII

STATUTORY FUNDS

Powers  of  the
Secretary  to  the
Treasury  on
statutory  funds

39.  (1)  The  Secretary  to  the  Treasury  shall  supervise,
examine,  and  monitor  all  statutory  funds  and  may  issue
directives on statutory funds in respect of which any other
written law does not provide for such matters.

(2) The Secretary to the Treasury shall submit a report on
the  performance  of  statutory  funds  to  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers, at least once in every year.

(3) Every statutory fund shall –

(a)

comply with any directive issued by the Secretary
to  the  Treasury  in  exercising  the  powers,  duties,
and functions under this Act and any other written
law;

(b)   (i)    submit draft annual budget estimates endorsed
by the Chief Accounting Officer of the statutory
fund and the relevant Minister to the Secretary
to the Treasury for approval;

(ii) prepare their budget proposals in line with the
provisions of the budget call circular issued by
the  Secretary  to  the  Treasury  if  any  statutory
fund is funded by annual budget;

(c)

(d)

submit  regular  reports  on  its  performance  to  the
Secretary to the Treasury as may be prescribed; and

submit  other  information  as  may  be  required  in
writing by the Secretary to the Treasury.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

33

(4) Any non statutory fund shall cease its operations from
the date of coming into operation of this Act and shall be
dissolved within one year from such date and the moneys
lying  to  the  credit  of  such  fund  shall  be  remitted  to  the
Consolidated Fund after discharging the liabilities of such
fund:

Provided however, where the Minister of Finance in
consultation with the Secretary to the Treasury, determines
that such a non-statutory fund shall continue in operation,
such fund shall be converted to a statutory fund as may be
prescribed.

PART IX

PUBLIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT

40.  (1)  The  selection  and  implementation  of  a  public
investment  project,  including  a  public  private  partnership
project shall be in compliance with –

(a)

the objects specified in section 2;

(b)

the fiscal responsibility framework provided for in
Part III; and

(c) Sri  Lanka’s  national  development  policy
framework,  national  policies,  sectoral  plans,  and
public investment programme.

(2)  The  Minister  of  Finance  shall  establish  a  Public

Investment Committee consisting of –

(a)

the  Heads  of  the  Departments  in  the  General
Treasury  responsible  for  the  following  subject
areas:-

General
principles  of
public
investment
management  and
Public
Investment
Committee

34

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(i) national  planning;

(ii) public  finance;

(iii)

fiscal  policy;

(iv) national  budget;

(v) public debt management;

(vi) external resources;

(vii)

treasury operations;

(viii) public  enterprises;

(ix) management services;

(x) project management and monitoring; and

(b)

the  authority  in  charge  of  the  subject  of  public-
private partnerships.

(3) The Chairperson of the Public Investment Committee

shall be the Secretary to the Treasury.

(4)  The  Secretary  to  the  Public  Investment  Committee
shall  be  an  officer  of  the  Department  responsible  for  the
subject of national planning, nominated by the Secretary to
the Treasury.

(5)  The Public Investment Committee shall be responsible

for –

(a)

the  selection  of  public  investment  projects
including  public-private  partnership  projects
specified  in  section  42,  based  on  the  criteria  that
shall be published by the Ministry of the Minister
of Finance;

Public
investment
programme

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

35

(b) making  recommendations  to  the  Minister  of
Finance on the mode of financing for such projects,
including financing from the annual budget; and

(c)

supervising  the  implementation  of  the  provisions
of  this  Act  and  the  regulations  made  thereunder
pertaining to public investment projects, including
public  private  partnership  projects,  and  making
recommendations as are deemed necessary to the
Minister of Finance.

41.  (1)  There  shall  be  a  public  investment  programme
consisting of all ongoing and prospective public investment
projects,  including  public-private  partnership  projects
planned  based  on  the  national  development  policy
framework.  The  public  investment  programme  shall  be
prepared by the Department responsible for the subject of
national planning in the manner as may be prescribed and
approved  by  the  Minister  of  Finance  and  be  published  in
the official website of the Ministry of the Minister of Finance
and be updated annually.

(2) Each budgetary entity which intends to implement a
new  public  investment  project,  including  a  public  private
partnership project by fifteenth day of May in any year shall
submit the project proposal including prescribed details to
the  Department  responsible  for  the  subject  of  national
planning.

(3) The Department responsible for the subject of national

planning  shall  –

(a)

review  project  proposals  including  prefeasibility
and  feasibility  study  reports  submitted  by
budgetary entities in accordance with the appraisal
methodologies as may be prescribed;

36

(b)

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

accept or reject the project proposals to be included
in  public  investment  programme  based  on  its
appraisal  of  project  proposals  and  subject  to  its
consistency with national development plan of Sri
Lanka and the fiscal strategy statement including
the medium-term fiscal framework.

Project  selection
and  budgeting

42. (1) Each budgetary entity may propose to the Minister
of  Finance  public  investment  project,  including  a  public-
private partnership project for inclusion in the annual budget,
if  such  proposed  projects  are  included  in  the  public
investment programme referred to in section 41.

(2)  Any  proposal  for  a  public  investment  project,
including a public-private partnership project referred to in
subsection (1), shall be included in the budget proposal of
the budgetary entity, in a form specified in the budget call
circulars issued by the Secretary to the Treasury.

(3)  Subject  to  the  ceilings  set  out  in  the  budget  call

circulars, the Public Investment Committee shall –

(a)

review  the  proposed  public  investment  projects,
including  public-private  partnership  projects
according  to  the  project  selection  criteria  as  may
be  prescribed  and  prepare  a  list  of  prioritized
projects for the approval of the Minister of Finance
and for the inclusion in the draft annual budget for
approval by the Cabinet of Ministers; and

(b)

recommend  appropriate  funding  sources  for
projects,  taking  into  account  the  available  fiscal
space  and  other  relevant  matters  which  need
consideration.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

37

(4)  The  Minister  of  Finance  shall  ensure  that  any
appropriation through annual budget shall not be made to a
public  investment  project,  including  a  public-private
partnership  project  which  is  not  included  in  the  public
investment programme.

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) and
(2),  public  investment  projects  that  are  specifically
developed  in  response  to  natural  disasters  or  emergencies
declared by the Government may be considered outside the
public  investment  programme.  Such  public  investment
projects  shall  be  subject  to  the  criteria  and  procedures  as
may be prescribed.

(6)  The  Public  Investment  projects  referred  to  in

subsection (5) shall be –

(a)

subjected  to  the  provisions  of  any  applicable
written law; and

(b)

approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.

43. (1) The public-private partnership projects shall be
subjected to the same procedure followed in respect of public
investment  projects  under  this  Act.  Additional  provisions
applicable to public-private partnership projects may be as
prescribed. The Minister of Finance may include a public-
private partnership project in the annual budget only if -

Public-private
partnership
projects

(a)

(b)

such project is considered as a project which offers
an economic return in terms of prescribed economic,
social and environmental criteria;

any  guarantees  provided  by  the  Government  on
public-private  partnerships  do  not  exceed  the
ceilings under the medium- term fiscal framework;
and

38

(c)

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

the risk borne by the Government in a public-private
partnership  project  is  deemed  reasonable  and
fiscally affordable, and the proposed risk mitigation
strategies  are  deemed  sufficient  and  taking  such
risk  is  required  for  the  project’s  efficient
implementation.

(2)  The  public-private  partnership  projects  shall  be
included  in  the  list  of  prioritized  projects  referred  to  in
paragraph (a) of subsection (3) of section 42 for the approval
of  the  Minister  of  Finance  for  the  inclusion  in  the  annual
budget.

(3) Any expenditure from the Consolidated Fund on an
approved  public-private  partnership  project  shall  be
appropriated  in  the  Appropriation  Act  for  the  relevant
financial  year  and  the  total  costs  of  the  public-private
partnership project over its lifetime shall be disclosed in the
annual  budget  document.

(4) Upon the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers for a
public-private  partnership  project,  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister of Finance shall ensure that –

(a)

(b)

an estimate of the contingent liabilities associated
with  all  public-private  partnership  projects  is
included in the fiscal strategy statement; and

reports  on  the  execution  of  public-private
partnership projects and their financial impact are
submitted to the Parliament with the annual report
of the Ministry of the Minister of Finance.

Project
monitoring  and
evaluation

44.  (1)  Each  public  entity  shall  ensure  that  all  public
investment  projects,  including  public-private  partnership
projects  be  delivered  on  time  within  the  budgetary
allocation, and in accordance with the guidelines issued by
the Secretary to the Treasury.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

39

(2) Each Chief Accounting Officer or Accounting Officer
responsible  for  the  implementation  and  monitoring  of
approved public investment projects shall submit the annual
action plan, and provide information on the implementation
of  each  such  projects  to  be  monitored  monthly  by  the
Ministry of the Minister of Finance.

(3) There shall be a Committee appointed by the Cabinet
of Ministers comprising members not more than eleven from
the  Heads  of  entities  responsible  for  planning,  resource
mobilizing,  budgeting,  financing  and  monitoring,  to  take
expeditious  strategic  decisions  relating  to  implementation
of public investment projects based on information provided
by the relevant Chief Accounting Officers and Accounting
Officers.

(4)  The Head of the Department responsible for project
monitoring  and  evaluation  shall  be  the  Secretary  to  the
Committee.

(5) The functions and responsibilities of the Committee
and the manner of monitoring and evaluation of projects as
may be prescribed.

(6) Any substantial changes to contracts or agreements
affecting the sustainability and affordability of any project
specified in subsection (1) shall be approved in advance by
the  Minister  of  Finance.  The  Minister  of  Finance  may
determine  the  criteria  for  determining  any  change  in  a
contract  or  agreement  as  substantive,  taking  into  account
relevant written laws or guidelines.

45.  (1)  A  report  together  with  information  relate  to  all
new projects approved by the Public Investment Committee,
and ongoing public investment projects, including public-
private partnership projects shall be included in the annual
budget document. Such report shall contain -

Reporting

40

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(a)

(b)

the name of each project, the starting date or dates
and expected completion date or dates, a summary
of the objectives and scope of the project;

total  project  cost  including  expenditure  already
incurred  on  the  project,  an  estimate  of  annual
expenditure  over  the  medium  term  and  financing
sources; and

(c)

any  other  information  as  may  be  deemed
appropriate by the Minister of Finance.

(2) The Secretary to the Treasury shall be responsible for
maintaining an updated data repository on public investment
projects,  including  public-private  partnership  projects.

PART X

GOVERNMENT BORROWINGS AND GUARANTEES

Public  debt
management

46. The policy framework on management of public debt
and Government guarantees shall be in accordance with the
provisions of Part III of this Act and subject to the relevant
laws.

PART XI

ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING

Financial
reporting

47.  (1)      The  financial  statements  of  the  Government

shall –

(a) be  prepared  complying  with  the  standards  to  be
developed based on the international public sector
accounting  standards;

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

41

(b) promote transparency in the disclosure to public of
financial information and effective management of
revenue,  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities  of  the
public  entities  to  which  the  accounting  standards
apply;  and

(c) be aimed at the advancement of financial reporting

in the public sector.

(2)  The budgetary entities shall prepare and submit to
the  Auditor-General  annual  financial  statement  and
information in the manner and with the frequency and detail
as specified in relevant written laws.

(3)  A  unified  chart  of  accounts  shall  be  used  by  every
budgetary entity unless the Secretary to the Treasury exempts
a  particular  budgetary  entity  from  such  requirement  with
the concurrence of the Minister of Finance:

Provided  however,  the  accounts  of  every  budgetary

entity shall reflect all necessary information.

(4)  Not later than one hundred and eighty days after the

closure of every financial year –

(a)

(b)

each public entity covered in subparagraph (i) of
paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3 shall
publish an annual performance report; and

each public entity covered in subparagraph (ii) and
(iii) of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3
shall publish an annual report,

that shall include inter-alia the accounts and other financial
statements to fulfill the requirements specified in the relevant
written laws and regulations made thereunder.

42

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(5) The Secretary to the Treasury shall periodically issue,
publish, and review the instructions, directives, processes,
procedures, and systems for accounting and reporting.

(6) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the submission of
the  accounts  and  other  financial  statements  of  budgetary
entities to the Auditor- General shall be in accordance with
the provisions of the National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018.

Power  to  require
information

48. (1) The Secretary to the Treasury shall have power to
require the public entities specified in subparagraphs (i), (ii)
and (iii) of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3 to
furnish regular reports or any other information on ad – hoc
basis –

(a) which  are  necessary  for  the  preparation  of  the
statements and reports referred to in this Part and
may be necessary to exercise his functions; and

(b) on matters relating to their financial management.

(2)  The  Head  of  every  public  entity  shall  furnish  the
information  and  reports  required  to  be  furnished  by  the
Secretary  to  the  Treasury  under  subsection  (1)  within  the
timeframe and in the form specified by the Secretary to the
Treasury.

Budget
Economic  and
Fiscal  Position
Report

49. (1) A budget economic and fiscal position report shall
cause to be tabled in Parliament by the Minister of Finance
on the day fixed for the second reading of the Appropriation
Bill in Parliament, in each year.

(2) The budget economic and fiscal position report shall
contain, the following information in the format as may be
prescribed  in  relation  to  the  current  and  immediately
succeeding financial year: -

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

43

(a)

estimates relating to the gross domestic product;

(b)

estimates relating to consumer prices;

(c)

estimates 
unemployment;

relating 

to  employment  and

(d)

estimates  relating  to  the  current  account  position
of the balance of payments;

(e)

estimates relating to revenue and expenditure;

(f)

estimates relating to Government borrowing;

(g)

(h)

(i)

the basis, economic or otherwise which has been
used in the preparation of the estimates specified in
paragraphs (a) to (f);

a  statement  relating  to  the  sensitivity  of  the
estimates specified in paragraphs (a) to (f) and the
changes which may occur in connection with the
economic or other basis used in the preparation of
such estimates;

a statement, quantified as far as practicable, the risks
that may have a material effect on the fiscal position
such as contingent liabilities including guarantees
and indemnities granted by the Government under
any written law;

(j) public announcements relating to proposals of the
Government  in  connection  with  Government
spending not included in the estimates referred to
in paragraph (e);

44

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(k) ongoing  negotiations  of  the  Government  which
have  not  been  finalized,  updates  to  the  fiscal
strategy  statement  and  the  medium-term  fiscal
framework  since  the  publication  of  the  original
statement;  and

(l)

such other information which may be necessary to
reflect  fairly  the  financial  position  of  the
Government in respect of each such financial year.

(3)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  subsection  (4),  the
information  contained  in  the  budget  economic  and  fiscal
position report shall take into account, as far as possible, all
Government decisions and all other circumstances that may
have material effect on the fiscal and economic position of
the Government.

(4)  Nothing  contained  in  this  section  shall  be  read  and
construed as requiring the inclusion in the budget economic
and fiscal position report, a disclosure of any information,
in view of the written opinion of the Minister of Finance, if
such details or information -

(a) be prejudicial to the national security; or

(b)

compromise  Sri  Lanka  in  a  material  way,  in
negotiation,  litigation  or  commercial  activity.

(5) The Report shall be published on the official website
of the Ministry of the Minister of Finance upon submission
to Parliament.

Mid-year  fiscal
position  report

50. (1) The Minister of Finance shall cause to be released
to  the  public,  in  respect  of  every  year,  a  mid-year  fiscal
position report to provide a basis for the public to evaluate
the Government’s mid-year fiscal performance as against its
fiscal strategy as set out in its statement.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

45

(2)  The  mid-year  fiscal  position  report  in  respect  of  a

financial year shall contain –

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

a statement of the estimated and actual expenditure
for the first six months of that year;

a statement of the estimated and actual revenue for
the first six months of that year;

a statement of the estimated and actual cash flows
for the first six months of that year;

a statement of the estimated and actual borrowings
for the first six months of that year; and

such other statements which may be necessary to
reflect  fairly,  the  financial  position  of  the
Government  in  respect  of  the  first  six  months  of
such financial year.

(3) Where there is a shortfall in the estimated revenue or
cash  flow,  or  an  excess  in  the  estimated  expenditure  or
borrowings,  the  mid-year  fiscal  position  report  shall  state
the reasons for such shortfall or excess.

(4)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  subsection  (5),  the
information contained in the mid-year fiscal position report
shall take into account, as far as possible, all Government
decisions and all other circumstances that may have a material
effect on the fiscal position including decisions taken  and
circumstance that exist, after the passing of the Appropriation
Act for that year.

(5)  Nothing  contained  in  this  section  shall  be  read  and
construed as requiring the inclusion in the mid- year fiscal
position report or the disclosure of any information, in view
of  the  written  opinion  of  the  Minister  of  Finance,  if  such
details or information -

46

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(a) be prejudicial to the national security; or

(b)

compromise  Sri  Lanka  in  a  material  way,  in
negotiation,  litigation  or  commercial  activity.

(6) Where any information on any matter required to be
included  in  a  mid-year  fiscal  position  report  remains
unchanged from the information in relation to such matter
as is included in the last budget economic and fiscal position
report,  the  mid-year  fiscal  position  report  shall  state  that
such information remains so unchanged.

(7) The mid-year fiscal position report shall be published
in the website of the Ministry of the Minister of Finance, by
the last day of the month of October of the relevant year or
the lapse of ten months from the date of the passing of the
Appropriation Act of the relevant year, whichever is later.

(8) The Minister of Finance shall –

(a)

(b)

if Parliament is sitting on the date of the release of
the mid- year fiscal position report, cause a copy of
such report to be tabled in Parliament within two
weeks of the date of such release; or

if Parliament is not sitting on the date of the release
of the mid-year fiscal position report, cause a copy of
such  report  to  be  tabled in Parliament within  two
weeks of the next sitting of Parliament.

51. (1) The Minister of Finance shall cause to be released
to the public, in respect of each financial year, a final budget
position report as a part of the annual report of the Ministry
of the Minister of Finance to provide a basis for the public to
evaluate  the  Government’s  annual  fiscal  performance  as
against its fiscal strategy as set out in its statement for the
relevant financial year.

Final  budget
position  report

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

47

(2)  The  final  budget  position  report  in  respect  of  a

financial year shall  contain -

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

a statement of the estimated and actual expenditure
for that year;

a statement of the estimated and actual revenue for
that year;

a statement of the estimated and actual cash flows
for that year;

a statement of the estimated and actual borrowings
for that year; and

such other statements which may be necessary to
reflect  fairly  the  financial  position  of  the
Government at the end of such financial year.

(3) Where there is a shortfall in the estimated revenue or
cash  flow  or  an  excess  in  the  estimated  expenditure  that
caused deviation from the primary expenditure limit or an
excess in the estimated borrowing, the final budget position
report shall state the reasons for such shortfall or excess.

(4)  The  final  budget  position  report  shall  be  published
on the website of the Ministry of the Minister of Finance,
not later than six months from the end of the financial year.

(5) The Minister of Finance shall –

(a)

if Parliament is sitting on the date of the release of
the  final  budget  position  report,  cause  a  copy  of
such report to be tabled in Parliament within two
weeks of the date of such release; or

Pre-election
budgetary
position  report

48

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(b)

if Parliament is not sitting on the date of the release
of the final budget position report, cause a copy of
such report to be tabled in Parliament within two
weeks of the next sitting of Parliament.

(6) The final budget position report for a financial year
may be incorporated the budget economic and fiscal position
report in respect of a financial year, which is introduced after
the commencement of that financial year.

52. (1) The Secretary to the Treasury, shall within three
weeks of the publication of proclamation or Order requiring
the holding of a General Election to elect the members of
Parliament, cause to be released to the public a pre-election
budgetary  position  report  containing  information  on  the
fiscal position of the country.

(2)  Every  pre-election  budgetary  position  report  shall
contain the following information for the current financial
year: -

(a)

estimates of revenue and expenditure;

(b)

estimates of the Government borrowings;

(c)

(d)

the economic and other assumptions that have been
used in preparing such estimates;

a statement of the risks, quantified where practicable,
that may have material effect on the fiscal position,
such as -

(i) contingent  liabilities  including  guarantees
and  indemnities  given  by  the  Government
under any Act;

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

49

(ii) publicly  announced  proposals  for  spending
by  the  Government  that  have  not  been
included  in  the  estimates  referred  to  in
paragraph (a); and

(iii) Government  negotiations  in  progress  and

not finalized; and

(e)

such other information as may be necessary to reflect
fairly the financial position of the Government as at
the date of the said report.

(3)    Subject  to  the  provisions  of  subsection  (4),  the
information  in  the  pre-election  budgetary  position  report
shall,  take  into  account  to  the  fullest  possible,  extent  any
decision of the Government having a material effect on the
fiscal  position.

(4) Nothing in this section shall be read or construed as
requiring  the  inclusion  in  a  pre-election  budgetary  position
report  or  the  disclosure  of  any  information,  in  view  of  the
written opinion of the Minister of Finance, if such details or
information -

(a) be prejudicial to the national security; or

(b)

compromise  Sri  Lanka  in  a  material  way,  in
negotiation,  litigation  or  commercial  activity.

(5)  Where  information  on  any  matter  required  to  be
included in a pre- election budgetary position report remains
unchanged from the information on that matter included in
a previous budget economic and fiscal position report or a
mid-year fiscal position report, the pre-election budgetary
position  report  shall  state  such  information  remains
unchanged from the information included in either or both
of these previous reports.

50

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(6) Every  pre-election  budgetary  position  report  shall

be accompanied with –

(a)

a statement signed by the Minister of Finance, for
the  purpose  that  the  Minister  of  Finance  has
complied with the requirements of subsection (8);

(b)

a statement by the Secretary to the Treasury, for the
purpose that the information in the report –

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

reflects  the  best  professional  judgement  of
the officers of the Ministry of the Minister of
Finance;

takes  into  account  all  economic  and  fiscal
information available to the Ministry of the
Minister of Finance; and

incorporates  the  fiscal  implications  of  the
Government  decisions  and  circumstances
disclosed by the  Minister  of  Finance  under
subsection (8),

to the fullest extent possible.

(7) The Minister of Finance shall, within two weeks of the
first sitting of the new Parliament, cause a copy of the report
specified in subsection (1) to be placed  before  Parliament
and such report shall be published in the official website of
the Ministry of the Minister of Finance.

(8)  For  the  purpose  of  enabling  the  Secretary  to  the
Treasury to prepare a pre- election budgetary position report
under this section, the Minister of Finance shall, within one
week  of  the  publication  of  the  proclamation  or  Order
requiring the holding of a General Election for the election

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

51

of members of Parliament, disclose to the Secretary to the
Treasury  details  of  all  Government  decisions  and  other
circumstances –

(a) within the knowledge of the Minister of Finance;

and

(b) which  have,  or  could  have,  material  fiscal  or

economic  implications.

53. (1) On at least a quarterly basis, the Minister of Finance
shall provide a statement on financial performance including
revenue and expenditure, of the Government to the Cabinet
of  Ministers  and  such  statement  shall  be  simultaneously
published  on  the  official  website  of  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister of Finance, not later than forty five days after the
end of each quarter in the manner as may be prescribed.

Reports  on
financial
performance  of
the  Ministry  of
the  Minister  of
Finance

(2) The Secretary to the Treasury or an officer so authorized
shall prepare and submit to the Auditor-General the annual
Government financial statements as specified in the National
Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018 and any other written law.

(3) The Secretary to the Treasury shall prepare the annual
report  containing  final  budget  position  report  and  chapter
on the overall performance of State-Owned Enterprises along
with  the  audited  financial  statements  of  the  Government
and  the  Auditor-General’s  opinion  thereon  not  later  than
one hundred and eighty days after the closure of the financial
year in such form and manner as may be prescribed.

(4)  The  Minister  of  Finance  shall  place  before  the
Parliament, the annual report referred to in subsection (3),
not later than one hundred and eighty days from the end of
each  financial  year.  The  report  shall  be  published  on  the
official website of the Ministry of the Minister of Finance.

52

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

Write  offs  and
waive  offs

54.  (1)  Where  any  loss  has  been  caused  by  delay,
negligence, fault or fraud of an officer or officers, or from
noncompliance with the provisions of this Act, regulations
or  directives  issued  under  this  Act,  such  loss  shall  be
recovered from the officer or officers responsible.

(2) Any claim for the write off of losses shall be considered
by  the  Secretary  to  the  Treasury  subject  to  the  relevant
written  laws  and  having  regard  to  the  prescribed  limit  of
losses.

(3)  A  waiver  is  an  abandonment  or  cancellation  of  an
amount  of  money  due  to  the  Government.  Waivers  other
than those arising out of losses fall into following two distinct
categories: -

(a)

certain  statutes  empower  authorized  officers  to
waive items of revenue or other dues to Government
in the administration of such statutes. The officers
so  authorized  may  deal  with  the  cancellation  or
wavier  of  Government  dues  without  further
authority;

    (b) (i) where  the  collection  of  revenue  is  provided  by
statute, but no provision exists therein to waive or
abandon a claim; and

(ii) where the waiver of irrecoverable revenue or other
Government dues not falling within the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this section and subparagraph
(i) of this paragraph,

authority  of  the  Secretary  to  the  Treasury  shall  be
sought.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

53

(4)  Details  of  actions,  authority  limits,  timelines  and
guidance  on  investigation,  reporting,  recovery  and  write-
off of a loss or damage shall be provided in the manner as
may be prescribed.

PART XII

STATE OWNED ENTERPRISES

55.  The provisions of this Part shall apply to State-Owned
Enterprises as specified in subparagraph (iii) of paragraph
(a) of subsection (2) of section 3.

Application  of
the  provisions  of
this  Part

Authority  of  the
Minister  of
Finance  on
State-Owned
Enterprises

56. The Minister of Finance shall have the power to -

(a) provide  an  opinion  to  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers
regarding proposals for the establishment, closure,
or merger of each State-Owned Enterprise including
the  costs  to  the  Government  and  risks  associated
with the establishment of a State-Owned Enterprise;

(b)

(c)

(d)

issue  corporate  governance  guidelines  aimed  at
enhancing  the  performance  of  State-Owned
Enterprises;

exercise  financial  oversight  over  State-Owned
Enterprises; and

exercise  any  other  power  as  may  be  specified  by
any other written law.

57.  (1)  The  relevant  Minister  shall  not  submit  any
proposal for the establishment of a State-Owned Enterprise
in accordance with section 56 –

Authority  of  the
relevant  Minister
on  State-Owned
Enterprises

54

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(a) without  having  a  clear  justification  of  the

requirement of such entity;

(b) which is not under the purview of the portfolio of

the Ministry of the relevant Minister;

(c)

if  any  other  State-Owned  Enterprise  exists  with
similar functions under the Ministry of the relevant
Minister or any other Ministry; or

(d) without considering the long term benefits and risks
associated with such establishment or incorporation
including the costs to the Government.

(2) The relevant Minister shall ensure that -

(a)

(b)

(c)

every  State-Owned  Enterprise  under  his  purview
shall provide information required by the Minister
of Finance including the submission of documents
specified in section 61;

the annual budget of the State-Owned Enterprises
is in line with the fiscal strategy statement; and

the annual budget of the State-Owned Enterprises
reflects the risk factors and the strategies to mitigate
those risks.

Powers  and
duties  of  the
Secretary  to  the
Treasury
regarding  State-
Owned
Enterprises

58. (1) The Secretary to the Treasury may, as he deemed
necessary issue directives on policy matters for State-Owned
Enterprises  covering  accountability  and  governance
requirements, review of their financial performance and any
other  matters  including  administration,  budgeting,
procurement, investment, finance and reporting, subject to
relevant written laws.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

55

(2) The Secretary to the Treasury shall keep a record of all

shareholdings in State-Owned Enterprises.

59. (1) Every State-Owned Enterprise shall prepare their
budget in respect of every financial year and such budget
shall be approved by the governing body of a State-Owned
Enterprise  not  later  than  fifteen  days  prior  to  the
commencement  of  the  financial  year  to  which  the  budget
relates.

Budget  of  State-
Owned
Enterprises

(2) The State-Owned Enterprise shall prepare their budget
estimates in line with the provisions of the budget call circular
issued by the Secretary to the Treasury if any State-Owned
Enterprise is funded by the annual budget.

(3) Governing body of every State-Owned Enterprise shall
adhere to the applicable regulations made under this Act in
respect of capital expenditure of the budget estimate of such
State-Owned Enterprise.

60. (1) (a)  Where  applicable,  there  shall  be  a  dividend
policy that shall be set by the respective governing bodies
of  State-Owned  Enterprises,  in  consultation  with  the
Secretary to the Treasury.

Levy  or
dividends  from
State-Owned
Enterprises

(b) The Minister of Finace may impose a levy on State-
Owned Enterprise where applicable and may exempt a State-
Owned Enterprise from the imposition of such levy. Such
levy shall be published in the annual report under subsection
(3) of section 53.

(2)  Dividends  or  other  profit  distribution  from  State-
Owned Enterprises paid to Government shall be paid into
the  Consolidated  Fund  and  reflected  in  the  annual  budget
presented to the Parliament.

(3) The Secretary to the Treasury shall disclose such sums
collected  as  levy  or  dividend  in  the  annual  report  under
subsection (3) of section 53.

56

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(4) No set-off tax relief shall be granted in respect of the

amounts paid as a levy or dividend under this section.

Reports  of  State-
Owned
Enterprises

61. (1) Every State-Owned Enterprise shall prepare and

submit to the Secretary to the Treasury –

(a)

a medium-term strategic or corporate plan;

(b)

an annual budget, an annual action plan including
information  on  their  capital  projects  and
procurement  plan;

(c)

an annual report; and

(d)

any other report as may be prescribed.

(2) The Secretary to the Treasury shall from time to time
publish the formats, timelines and directions of the reports
referred to in subsection (1).

(3)  A State-Owned Enterprise shall submit to the Auditor-
General  a  draft  annual  report,  not  later  than  two  calendar
months from the end of each financial year that includes the
approved financial statements of the State-Owned Enterprise
along with the statements and documents as prescribed by
any written law with copies of such reports to the relevant
Minister and the Minister of Finance.

(4)  Upon  receiving  the  Auditor-General’s  opinion  and
not later than one hundred and eighty days after the closure
of  every  financial  year,  the  State-Owned  Enterprise  shall
submit  the  annual  report  to  the  Parliament  with  copies  of
such  reports  to  the  relevant  Minister  and  the  Minister  of
Finance and publish the report on the official website of the
relevant State-Owned Enterprise.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

57

PART XIII

PROVINCIAL COUNCILS AND LOCAL AUTHORITIES

62. (1) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution and
relevant  written  laws,  Provincial  Councils  and  Local
Authorities  shall  adhere  to  the  principles  of  transparency
and  fiscal  responsibility  stipulated  in  this  Act  in  the
management of public finance.

Duty  to  observe
the  principles  of
transparency
and  fiscal
responsibility

(2)  The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister to whom
the subject of Provincial Councils and Local Authorities are
assigned shall submit reports on revenues and expenditures
and other financial information of the Provincial Councils
and Local Authorities, as may be requested by the Minister
of Finance.

PART XIV

CADRE MANAGEMENT

63. (1) The Minister of Finance shall be vested with the
power of cadre management of the public entities in a manner
as may be prescribed that would achieve the objects of this
Act.

Cadre
management

(2) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution and the
approval of the Cabinet of Ministers, the responsibilities of

the Minister of Finance with regard to cadre management,
shall  include  the  determination  of  the  salaries  and  wages
and other payments, to the officers and other employees of
public  entities.

Financial
misconduct  by
public  officers
and  governing
body  of  a  public
entity

58

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

PART XV

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

64. (1) An officer or an employee of a public entity to
whom a power or duty is conferred or assigned under this
Act or any regulation or rule made thereunder who willfully
or negligently makes or permits an unlawful, unauthorized,
irregular or wasteful expenditure or misapplication of public
finance  or  public  property  by  an  act  or  omission,  shall
commit the act of financial misconduct and shall be liable
to disciplinary action.

(2) The Head of the relevant public entity shall take, or in
the  event  that  he  is  not  the  disciplinary  authority  of  the
officer alleged to have committed the financial misconduct,
shall  immediately  inform  the  disciplinary  authority  of  the
disciplinary action against the officer or employee who is
liable to the financial misconduct under subsection (1).

(3) (a) Where an offence under this Act or any regulation
or rule made thereunder is committed by a body of persons,
if such body of persons is -

(i)

a body corporate, every director and officer
of  such  body  corporate  including  the  chief
executive  officer,  the  principal  executive
officer or the chief administrative officer as
the case may be of that body corporate; or

(ii)

a  partnership,  every  partner  of  such
partnership,

shall be deemed to have committed that offence.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

59

(b) The  Secretary  of  the  Ministry  of  the  relevant
Minister shall immediately take disciplinary action against
the body of persons who is liable for the financial misconduct
under paragraph (a):

Provided that any officer or body of persons as the case
may be, shall not be deemed to have committed such offence,
if such person proves to the satisfaction of the disciplinary
authority  that  such  offence  was  committed  without  his
knowledge or that such person exercised all due diligence
as was necessary, to prevent the commission of such offence.

65.  The Chief Accounting Officer, through the relevant
Minister shall report to the Cabinet of Ministers, any non–
compliance of a public entity coming under the purview of
such Minister, with the requirements stipulated under this
Act or any regulations made thereunder.

Report  the  non-
compliance  to
the  Cabinet  of
Ministers

PART XVI

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

66. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between
the provisions of this Act and the provisions of any other
law  governing  the  management  of  public  finance  in  Sri
Lanka, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

Consistency  with
other  laws

67. (1) The Minister of Finance may make regulations in
respect of matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in
respect of which regulations are authorized to be made.

Regulations

(2)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  the  powers
contained  in  subsection  (1),  the  Minister  of  Finance  may
make regulations -

60

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(a) on establishing commitments, paying obligations,
and other requirements for an effective commitment
control system;

(b) by classifying arrears; and

(c) on the management of and settlement of arrears, the
reporting requirements of arrears, the inclusion of
arrears  in  the  annual  debt  report  required  under
relevant written laws applicable to the management
of public debt, and such other matters in relation to
the control of arrears.

(3)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  of  Finance
shall  be  published  in  the  Gazette  and  shall  come  into
operation on the date of such publication or on such later
date as may be specified in that regulation.

(4)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  of  Finance
shall, within three months, after its publication in the Gazette,
be brought before Parliament for approval.

(5) Every regulation which is not so approved shall be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval
but  without  prejudice  to  anything  duly  done  thereunder.
Notification of the date on which any regulation is deemed
to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

(6) Until such regulations are framed –

(a)

the financial regulations of the Government of the
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka
approved by the Minister of Finance published in
year  1992;

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

61

(b)

circulars issued by the Secretary to the President,
Secretary  to  the  Treasury  and  the  Heads  of
Departments under the General Treasury; and

(c)

circular issued by a Secretary to a Ministry with the
approval of the Cabinet of Ministers,

with regard to public financial management shall continue
to be in force, in so far as such regulations and circulars are
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.

68. (1)  The  Secretary  to  the  Treasury  may  issue  to  the
public entities and persons referred to in subsection (2) of
section 3, directives deemed as necessary for the purpose of
implementing the provisions of this Act.

Power  to  issue
instructions  or
directives

(2)  The  Secretary  to  the  Treasury  shall  publish  such
directives  on  the  official  website  of  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister of Finance.

PART XVII

REPEALS

69. (1) Sections 8 and 14 of the Finance Act, No. 38 of

Repeals

1971 are hereby repealed.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of section 8 of Part II of
the Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971, any budget prepared by
any public corporation in terms of the provisions of repealed
section 8 of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971 and
subsisting  on  the  day  immediately  preceding  the  date  of
coming into operation of this Act, shall be deemed to be a
budget prepared under section 59 of this Act.

62

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

(3)  Fiscal  Management  (Responsibility)  Act,  No.  3  of

2003 is hereby repealed.

PART XVIII

INTERPRETATION

Interpretation

70. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -

“Accounting Officer” shall have the same meaning as
in the National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018;

“annual action plan” means the document that outlines
the actions, activities and resources that will be
used to achieve goals and priorities of the public
entity for a financial year;

“annual  budget”  means  the  budget  approved  by  the

Parliament for a financial year;

“Appropriation  Act”  means  an  Act  reviewed  and
approved by the Parliament to make a payment
from the Consolidated Fund;

“arrears”  means  financial  liabilities  unpaid  at  the
maturity date, the latter established by written
law or by contract, should the maturity not be
established  by  either  of  the  mechanisms
described  above,  the  maturity  period  shall  be
established as ninety days from the date of the
relevant invoice or of satisfaction of the terms of
the relevant contract;

“budgetary entities” means Ministries, Departments,
District  Secretariats  of  the  Government  and
special  spending  units;

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

63

“Central  Bank”  means  the  Central  Bank  established
under the Central Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No.16
of 2023;

“Chief  Accounting  Officer”  shall  have  the  same
meaning as in the National Audit Act, No. 19 of
2018;

“commitment”  means  the  administrative  action  to
which  requisition  is  made  prior  to  making  an
obligation;

“Constitution”  means  the  Constitution  of  the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka;

“Department”  means  an  entity  setup  statutorily  or
administratively, that has been assigned a specific
area  of  activity  and  has  been  given  a  Head  of
Expenditure in the annual budget;

“directives”  include  circulars,  guidelines  or  special
directions issued by General Treasury or Department
under the General Treasury;

“District Secretariat” means an entity entrusted with the
administrative  and  development  function  of  the
district;

“disposal”  means      the  sale,  transfer,  license,  lease  or
other disposition including any sale and leaseback
transaction  of  any  property  by  any  person,
including any sale, assignment, transfer or other
disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes or
accounts  receivable  or  any  rights  and  claims
associated  therewith;

64

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

“financial  year”  means  notwithstanding  anything  to
the  contrary  in  any  other  written  law,  the
financial  year  of  the  Government  and  public
entities shall be twelve months commencing on
first day of January of each year other than the
Companies  established  under  the  Companies
Act, No. 07 of 2007, with a Government stake;

“fiscal risk” means factors or events that may cause fiscal
revenue,  expense,  financing,  asset  and  liability
variables to deviate from forecasts in annual and
multi-year  fiscal  programming;  and  it  may
originates from domestic or foreign macroeconomic
conditions,  State-Owned  Enterprises  operation,
implementation of public-private partnerships, and
natural disasters among other causes;

“Government”  means  the  Government  of  the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka;

“guarantee”  means  an  explicit  undertaking  by  the
Government  as  the  guarantor  to  guarantee
fulfillment of contracted obligations of another
legal  person  or  entity  under  certain  specified
conditions;

“Head  of  Expenditure”  means,  in  relation  to  the
Appropriation  Act,  the  annual  budget  and  the
supplementary estimates, an appropriation that–

(a)

specifies  the  total  expenditure  for  a
budgetary  entity;  and

(b)

separately voted by the Parliament;

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

65

“levy” means a payment made by a public corporation
to  the  Consolidated  Fund  of  a  return  on  the
capital grants of the Government at such rate or
a  payment  to  the  Consolidated  Fund  of  such
amount as may be determined, from time to time,
by the Minister;

“medium-term” means between three to five years;

  “medium-term  fiscal  framework”  means  a  set  of
economic assumptions and fiscal projections and
targets covering the upcoming financial year and
the four succeeding financial years (projection
years);

“national  development  policy  framework”  means  a
logical and an overarching structure that entails
long-term  goals  and  guidance  for  the
development of policies;

“national policy” means the policies derived from the
national  development  policy  framework  to
achieve  the  national  development  objectives;

“non-financial  assets”  means  produced  or  non-
produced  movable  or  immovable  assets,
including lands, buildings, structures, plant and
machinery,  vehicles,  office  equipment  and
furniture,  and  other  assets  declared  as  non-
financial assets that are fully owned, assigned,
possessed,  vested  in,  utilized,  or  leased  by  a
public  entity;

“non  statutory  funds”  means  funds  that  are  not

established by law;

66

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

“official  bank  account”  means  any  bank  account
opened with the Central Bank of Sri Lanka or a
commercial bank or a specialized bank licensed
under the provisions of the Banking Act, No. 30
of 1988 and authorized by the Secretary to the
Treasury  as  prescribed  by  regulations,  to  be
operated  and  maintained  in  order  to  facilitate
the management of public finance;

“primary balance” shall be the overall balance of the
Government excluding interest payments of the
Government. In calculating the primary balance,
proceeds 
or
commercialization of public assets shall not be
part  of  Government  revenues,  and  the
Government’s equity injections to corporations
other  than  banks  for  recapitalization  purposes
shall be recorded as Government expenditure;

privatization 

from 

“primary expenditure” shall be the total expenditure
of the Government excluding debt services in a
financial year;

“prescribed” means prescribed by regulations;

“President”  means  the  President  of  the  Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka;

“Provincial  Council”  means  a  Provincial  Council
established for a Province by virtue of Article
154A of the Constitution;

“public  corporation”  shall  have  the  same  meaning
assigned to such expression under Article 170
of  the  Constitution;

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

67

“public  debt”  means  liabilities  of  the  Government
created by debt and debt of the entities specified
in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3;

“public finance “includes –

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

funds  allocated  to  any  public  entity
specified  in  paragraph  (a)  of  subsection
(2) of section 3 by the Appropriation Act
of the relevant year;

funds held by any public entity specified
in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section
3  in  terms  of  any  written  law  excluding
approved  termination  funds  which
includes thrift, savings or building society
or welfare fund to which contributions are
made by employees or, any gratuity fund
maintained for the purpose of payment of
gratuities to employees on the termination
of their services under the relevant written
law;

funds vested in the Government by virtue
of the provisions of any written law; and

funds received or borrowed by any public
entity  specified  in  paragraph  (a)  of
subsection  (2)  of  section  3  with  the
approval of the Parliament;

“public  funds”  means  moneys  in  the  Consolidated
Fund or any other Fund and moneys under the
control of the Government excluding approved
termination funds which includes thrift, savings

68

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

or  building  society  or  welfare  fund  to  which
contributions  are  made  by  employees  or,  any
gratuity  fund  maintained  for  the  purpose  of
payment  of  gratuities  to  employees  on  the
termination of their services under the relevant
written law;

“public investment programme” means a medium-term
rolling  plan  consisting  of  all  ongoing  and
proposed public investment projects and public-
private partnership projects prepared based on
the national development policy framework;

“public  investment  project”  means  an  integrated  set
of  activities  funded  by  the  Government,
provincial  council  or  local  authority  aimed  at
allocating  resources  of  financial,  physical  or
service towards the development, improvement,
operation  or  maintenance  of  public  assets  or
services to enhance the quality of life of citizens
and  promote  economic  growth  and  address
societal  needs;

“public office holder” means Government appointee
to  a  body  entrusted  with  an  advisory  or
administration  function,  and  remunerated
through  the  public  finance;

“public officer” shall have the same meaning given in

Article 170 of the Constitution;

“public-private  partnership”  means  a  long-term
contract  between  a  private  party  and  a
Government entity for providing a public asset
or  service  in  which  the  private  party  bears
significant risk and management responsibility;

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

69

“relevant Minister” means the Minister under whose
purview the public entity is assigned under the
paragraph (1) of Article 44 of the Constitution;

“Revenue Accounting Officer” means an Accounting
Officer who is vested with the responsibility of
facilitating  of  the  preparation  of  the  annual
revenue estimates of the revenue codes assigned
by  the  annual  budget  estimates  and  who  will
ultimately  accountable  for  variations  between
estimate and actual collections;

“special spending unit” means an entity, other than a
Ministry,  Department,  District  Secretariat  or
Provincial Council, that has been given a Head
of Expenditure in the annual budget;

“State-Owned Enterprise” means -

(a)

(b)

a  public  corporation  within  the  meaning
of  the  Constitution;

entities established and operated under the
Companies Act, No.07 of 2007 in which
the State has direct or indirect controlling
interest by virtue of its shareholding; or

(c) State-Owned  Corporations,  converted  in
terms  of  the  Conversion  of  Public
Corporations  or  Government  Owned
Business  Undertakings  into  Public
Companies  Act,  No.23  of  1987,  or  such
other Acts in terms of which any business
entity  has  been  vested  with 
the
Government,

70

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

with  the  exception  of  the  Central  Bank  of
Sri Lanka ;

“Statutory  Fund”  means  any  fund  other  than  the
Consolidated Fund, created or established under
any  written  law  or  an  Act  of  Parliament  for  a
specific  purpose,  to  which  public  finances  are
allocated excluding approved termination funds
which includes thrift, savings or building society
or welfare fund to which contributions are made
by employees or, any gratuity fund maintained
for  the  purpose  of  payment  of  gratuities  to
employees on the termination of their services,
under the relevant written law;

“tax  expenditure”  includes  exemptions,  allowances,
credits, rate reliefs and tax deferrals pertaining
to tax;

“trust” shall have the same meaning assign to that in
section 3 of the Trust Ordinance, No. 9 of 1917;
and

“vote on account” means an estimate of Government
expenditure approved by the Parliament in order
to  continue  the  Government  services  and
development activities for a maximum of four
months, in the absence of an Appropriation Act.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  the
event  of
inconsistency

71. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Public  Financial  Management
Act, No. 44 of 2024

71

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING
English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

