PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

————————

ARUNDIKA  FERNANDO  RELIEF  SERVICES  AND
GODFREY  FERNANDO  MEMORIAL  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Arundika Fernando Relief Services and
Godfrey Fernando Memorial Foundation

————————

Presented by the Hon. Anura Priyadharshana Yapa, M. P.
for Kurunegala District on 03rd of August 2021

(Published in the Gazette on July 19, 2021)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

[Bill No. 60]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

2-2d

2-

Arundika Fernando Relief Services and
1
Godfrey Fernando Memorial Foundation (Incorporation)

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ARUNDIKA FERNANDO RELIEF
SERVICES AND GODFREY FERNANDO MEMORIAL FOUNDATION

WHERE  an  Foundation  called  and  known  as  the
“Arundika Fernando Relief Services and Godfrey Fernando
Memorial  Foundation”  has  heretofore  been  formed  at
No. 65, Walawwaththa, Dankotuwa, of Puttalam District in
Sri  Lanka  for  the  purpose  of  effectually  carring  out  and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Foundation according to the rules  agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  hertofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such  application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

5

10

15

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Arundika  Fernando
Relief Services and Godfrey Fernando Memorial Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2021.

Short  title

20

25

2. From  and  after  the  date  of  commencement
of    this  Act,  such  and  so  many  persons  as  now
are members of the “Arundika Fernando Relief Services and
Godfrey  Fernando  Memorial  Foundation”  (hereinafter
referred to as the “Foundation”), or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
with  perpetual  succession  under  the  name  and  style    of
“Arundika Fernando Relief Services and Godfrey Fernando
Memorial Foundation”, and by that name may sue and be
sued in all courts, with full power and authority to have and
use a common seal alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporation
of  the
Arundika
Fernando
Relief
Services  and
Godfrey
Fernando
Memorial
Foundation

2
Arundika Fernando Relief Services and
Godfrey Fernando Memorial Foundation (Incorporation)

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

5

10

15

20

25

30

(a)

(b)

(c)

supporting  the  establisment  of  pre-school  and
making  arrangements  to  ensure  upliftment  of
children by devising programmes to develop them;

introducing technical expertise and skills required
to  successfully  run  industries  related  to  fisheries,
agriculture  and  commercial  business,  organizing
training workshops, providing financial assistance
to whatever possible manner and making available
various facilities connected thereto;

identifying  local  artists  in  order  to  preserve
traditional cultural arts and conducting assessment
of  them  at  various  levels  to  encourage  them  and
making  arrangements  to  obtain  their  maximum
contribution towards the preservation of traditional
cultural  arts  by  offering  them  various  facilities
required by them;

(d)

effecting  betterment  of  the  lives  of  farmers  and
fishermen  by  promoting  small  and  medium  level
industries and expanding infrastructure facilities;

(e) making arrangements towards the promotion of all
places of religious worship and carrying out relevant
programmes  to  enhance  mutual  understanding
among  followers  of  various  religions  aimed  at
religious  cohabitation;

(f)

carrying  out  any  other  activity  that  is  deemed
necessary for the achievement of the objectives of
the  Foundation;  and

(g) working  closely  with    local  and  foreign
organizations  with  similar  objectives  of  the
Foundation.

Arundika Fernando Relief Services and
3
Godfrey Fernando Memorial Foundation (Incorporation)

4.

(1)  The  affairs  of  the  Corporation  shall,  subject  to
the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation be administered by a Board
of Directors consisting of Chairman and Secretary, Treasurer
and  another  eleven  members  elected  in  accordance  with
such rules.

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the
Corporation

(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Mr. Arundika
Fernando shall be the Chairman of the Board of Directors for
life and thereafter, the Family members of the person who
was holding office as the Chairman shall become the next
Chairman of the Board of Directors.

(3) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of Administration of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.

(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall nuless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors  a  new  members  shall  be  appointed  to  fill  such
Vacancy  and  such  a  new  members  shall  hold  office  for  a
period of four years.

5. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  any  other
written  law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform  and  execute  all  such  acts,  matters  and  things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
moveable,  to  open,  operate  and  close  bank  accounts,  to
borrow or raise moneys with or without security, to erect any
building or structures on any land held by the Corporation
and  to  engage,  employ  and  dismiss  officers  and  servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

General
Powers  of  the
Corporation

5

10

15

20

25

30

4
Arundika Fernando Relief Services and
Godfrey Fernando Memorial Foundation (Incorporation)

6.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time,  at  any  General  Meeting  of  the  members  and  by  a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and  voting,  to  make  rules,  not  inconsistent  with  the
provisions of this  Act, or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—

Rules  of  the
Corporation

(a)

classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable;

(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and Board
of Directors, the quorum for such meetings and the
exercise and performance of their powers and duties;

(c)

the  appointment,  power,  duties  and  functions  of
the  various  officers,  agents  and  servants  of  the
Corporation;

(d) qualification required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors; and

(e)

the administrations and management of the property
of the Corporation.

5

10

15

20

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to

25

rules of the Corporation.

7. All  debts  and  liabilities  of  the  Foundation  existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
purposes of this Act.

30

Debts  due  by
and  payble  to
the  Centre

Arundika Fernando Relief Services and
5
Godfrey Fernando Memorial Foundation (Incorporation)

8.

(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys  heretofore  or  hereafter  to  be  received  by  way  of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants  for  and  on  account  of  the  Corporation  shall  be
deposited  to  the  credit  of  the  Corporation  in  one  or  more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.

Fund  of  the
Corporation

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its power, duties and function under the Act.

9. The  Corporation  shall  be  able  and  capable  in  law
to  acquire  and  hold  any  property,  movable  and
immovable which may become vested in it by virtue of any
purchase,  grant,  lease,  gift,  testamentary    disposition  or
otherwise  and  all  such  property  shall  be  held  by  the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, with full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of the same.

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

10. No member of the Corporation of the Corporation
there  remains  after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts
and  liabilities  of  the  Corporation  or  any  other  purpose,  be
liable  to  make  any  contribution  exceeding  the  among
of  such  membership  fees  as  may  be  due  from  him  to
the  Corporation.

Limitation  of
liabilities  of
members

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

11.

If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Corporation  there
remains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be give or
transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to the those of the Corporation and which, is
or are by its or there rules prohibited from distributing any
income or property among their members. Such institution
or institutions shall be determined by the Members of the
Corporation at or immediately before the dissolution of the
Corporation.

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

6
Arundika Fernando Relief Services and
Godfrey Fernando Memorial Foundation (Incorporation)

12.

(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be

the calendar year.

(2) The  Corporation  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to  be
kept  of  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities  and
all other transactions of the Corporation.

5

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by

a qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.

Audit  and
accounts  of
the
Corporation

(4) In this section "qualified auditor" means–

10

15

(a) an individual who, being a member of the institute
of  Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka,  or  any
other  institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such institute; or

(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of  which,  being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  of
any other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the council of such Institute.

20

25

13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any  instrument  whatsoever  except  in  the  presence  of
Chairman and an another member of the Board of Directors
who  shall  sign  their  names  on  the  instrument  in  token  of
their presence and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation

14. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect  the  rights  of  the  Republic  or  of  anybody  politic,  or
corporate  or  of  any  other  persons  expect  such  as  are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.

30

Savings  of
the  rights  of
the  Republic
and  others

15.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

Arundika Fernando Relief Services and
7
Godfrey Fernando Memorial Foundation (Incorporation)

Department  of  Government  Printing

