PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

REGISTRATION  OF  DOCUMENTS  (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 18 OF 2024

[Certified on 01st of  April, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 05, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Registration of Documents (Amendment)
Act, No. 18 of 2024

1

[Certified on 01st of April, 2024]

L.D.-O. 69/2017

AN ACT TO AMEND THE REGISTRATION OF DOCUMENTS

ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 117)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.  (1) This Act may be cited as the Registration of

Documents (Amendment) Act, No. 18 of 2024.

Short  title  and
date  of
operation

(2)    The  provisions  of  this Act,  other  than  the
provisions of this section, shall come into operation on such
date as the Minister may appoint by Order published in the
Gazette (in this Act referred to as the “appointed date”).

(3) The provisions of this section shall come into
operation on the date on which the Bill becomes an Act of
Parliament.

2.  Section  8  of  the  Registration  of  Documents
Ordinance  (Chapter  117)  (in  this Act  referred  to  as  the
“principal enactment”) is hereby amended in the proviso to
paragraph (b) of that section, by the addition immediately
after subparagraph (xi) of that proviso, of the following new
subparagraph: -

Amendment  of
section  8  of
Chapter  117

“(xii)   any agreement in relation to a transaction which
is  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Secured
Transactions Act, No. 17 of  2024.”.

3. Chapter IV of the principal enactment (sections 16

to 24 both inclusive) is hereby repealed.

Repeal  of
Chapter  IV  of
the  principal
enactment

4. The heading of Chapter V of the principal enactment
is hereby repealed and the following heading is substituted
therefor: -

Replacement  of

the  heading  of

Chapter  V  of  the

principal

enactment

2

Registration of Documents (Amendment)
Act, No. 18 of 2024

“CHAPTER V
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO INSTRUMENTS AFFECTING LAND’’

Amendment  of

section  25  of

the  principal

enactment

5.  Section  25  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  by  the  substitution  for  the  words  “an  instrument
affecting land or a pledge, mortgage or bill of sale.”, of the
words “an instrument affecting land.”.

Amendment  of

section  29  of

the  principal

enactment

6.  Section  29  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby

amended as follows:-

(1)

in  subsection  (1)  of  that  section,  by  the
substitution for the words “which affects land or
movable property”, of the words “which affects
land”; and

(2)   by the repeal of the marginal note to that section
and  the  substitution  therefor,  of  the  following
marginal note: -

“Land  situated
in several
districts.”.

Amendment  of

section  41  of

the  principal

enactment

Amendment  of
the  First
Schedule  to  the
principal
enactment

7.  Section  41  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  by  the  substitution  for  the  words  “instruments
affecting  land  and  pledges,  mortgages  or  bills  of  sale
registered by him”, of the words “instruments affecting land
registered by him”.

8.  The  First  Schedule  to  the  principal  enactment  is
hereby  amended  in  Part  III  of  that  Schedule,  by  the
substitution in item 2 thereof, for the words and figures “any
book or index kept under Chapters III, IV, V, VI, for each
transaction”  of  the  words  and  figures  “any  book  or  index
kept under Chapter III, V or VI for each transaction”.

Enforceability

of  instruments

registered  under

Chapter  IV  of

the  principal

enactment

Registration of Documents (Amendment)
Act, No. 18 of 2024

3

9.  (1) Where, on the appointed date, an instrument

creating-

(a) a pledge, mortgage or bill of sale of movable

property; or

(b) (i) an interest in a fixture of any immovable

property; or

(ii) an  assignment  of  a  right  to  payment
under a mortgage, charge or lease of any
immovable property where the assignment
does not convey or transfer the assignor’s
interest in the immovable property,

which has been registered under Chapter IV of the principal
enactment, is in force, such pledge, mortgage or bill of sale of
movable property or such interest in a fixture of immovable
property or such assignment of a right to payment under a
mortgage, charge or lease of immovable property shall, for a
period of two years from the appointed date, continue to be
enforceable,  but  shall  be  required  to  be  registered  under
the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Secured  Transactions Act,
No. 17 of  2024 as a pledge, mortgage or bill of sale of movable
property, or an interest in a fixture of immovable property or
an assignment of a right to payment under a mortgage, charge
or lease of immovable property prior to the expiration of such
period of two years.

        (2) An instrument referred to in subsection (1) shall, on
being  registered  under  the  Secured  Transactions
Act, No. 17 of  2024, be deemed to have been perfected from
the date on which such instrument initially became legally
enforceable, and the priority which such instrument became
entitled to at the time it initially became legally enforceable,
shall continue to prevail.

4

Registration of Documents (Amendment)
Act, No. 18 of 2024

        (3) An instrument referred to in subsection (1) which
is  not  registered  under  the  Secured  Transactions
Act, No. 17 of  2024 prior to the expiration of two years from
the appointed date, shall become legally unenforceable after
the expiration of such period.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

10.  In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and Tamil  texts  of  this Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Registration of Documents (Amendment)
Act, No. 18 of 2024

5

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

