PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

CHAMBER  OF  CONSTRUCTION  INDUSTRY  OF
SRI  LANKA  (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  No.  23  OF 2019

[Certified on 18th of  November, 2019]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 22, 2019

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 16.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

1

[Certified on 18th of November, 2019]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 01/2015

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE CHAMBER OF CONSTRUCTION
INDUSTRY OF SRI LANKA

WHEREAS a Chamber called and known as the “Chamber
of Construction Industry of Sri Lanka” has heretofore been
registered under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 for the
purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and transacting
all matters connected with the said Chamber according to
the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble.

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Chamber  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant  the  said  application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the Chamber of Construction
Industry of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019.

Short  title.

Incorporation  of
the  Chamber  of
Construction
Industry  of
Sri  Lanka.

2. From  and  after  the  date  of  commencement  of  this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Chamber of Construction Industry of Sri Lanka (hereinafter
referred to as the “Chamber”) and shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the body corporate hereby constituted shall
have perpetual succession under the name and style of the
“Chamber  of  Construction  Industry  of  Sri  Lanka”
(hereinafter referred to as the “body corporate”) and by that
name may sue and be sued with full power and authority to
have, and use a common seal and to alter the  same at its
pleasure.

2

Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

General  objects
of  the  body
Corporate.

3. The general objects for which the body corporate is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

to  act  as  a  representative  body,  to  promote  and
protect the interests of those engaged in construction
activities;

to  assist  the  relevant  authorities  to  stimulate  the
development  of  national  construction  industry;

to study issues of national significance and to make
recommendations;

to establish panels of professionals in such areas in
projects  relating  to  its  members  and  to  evaluate
and issue reports and certificates on such projects;

to act as a centre for recruitment of staff for member
firms in the national construction industry on the
request of such firms;

to secure contracts within and outside Sri Lanka for
the members of the body corporate upon receipt of
the  registration  of  the  Construction  Industry
Development  Authority  and  subject  to  the
provisions  of 
the  Construction  Industry
Development  Authority  Act,  No.  33  of  2014  and
standards  and  guidelines  of  the  Construction
Industry Development Authority;

to  award  scholarships  and  fellowships  for  the
furtherance  and  development  of  the  local
construction  industry;

to  conduct  training  courses  and  issue  certificates
with  the  approval  of  the  Tertiary  and  Vocational
Education  Commission  established  under  section
2  of  the  Tertiary  and  Vocational  Education  Act,
No. 20 of 1990; and

Body  corporate
to  ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of  Ministry
or  Department
of  the  Govern-
ment  or
Provincial
Council.
Management  of
affairs  of  the
body  corporate.

Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

3

(i)

to act as trustees, custodians or managers to funds
subscribed  or  donated  for  the  upliftment  of  the
construction  industry.

4. The  objects  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  carried
out in such manner so as not to create any conflict between
the work of the body corporate and any work being carried
out  simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or of any Provincial Council.

5.

(1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  the
management and administration of the affairs of the body
corporate shall be carried out by a Board of Management
consisting  of  such  number  of  office  bearers  as  may  be
specified by the rules made under section 7.

(2) (a) The members of the Board of Management of the
Chamber that holds office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act shall function as an
Interim Committee of the body corporate until the first Board
of  Management  is  appointed  or  elected  in  the  manner
provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) The Interim Committee shall have the power to make
rules  for  the  interim  administration  of  the  body  corporate
and for election or appointment of the members of the first
Board of Management of the body corporate.

(c) Any decision of the Interim Committee shall be taken
by the majority of its members present at such Committee
meeting.

(d) The first Board of Management of the body corporate
shall be appointed or elected within one year of the date of
commencement of this Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board of Management
including  the  patrons  and  advisors,  shall  be  appointed  or
elected for a period of three years and any such office bearer,

Powers  of  the
body  corporate.

4

Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

patron  or  advisor  shall  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  or
re-election after lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Board of Management shall, having regard to the
rules of the body corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill
such  vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects
of  the  body  corporate  or  any  one  of  them,  including  the
power—

(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required for the purposes of the body corporate and
to deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;

(b) enter into and perform or carry out, whether directly
or  through  any  officer  or  agent  authorized  in  that
behalf by the body corporate, all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objects or the exercise of the powers of the
body  corporate;

(c) to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind:

Provided  that,  the  Board  of  Management  shall
obtain the prior written approval of the Department

Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

5

of  Externeal  Resources  of  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister assigned the subject of Finance, in respect
of all foreign grants, gifts or donations made to the
body  corporate;

(d)  to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts
in any bank;

(e) to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for  the  purposes  of  the  body  corporate,  in  such
manner  as  the  Board  of  Management  may
determine;

(f) to  undertake,  accept,  execute,  perform  and
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal
property  with  a  view  to  promoting  the  objects  of
the body corproate;

(g) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the body corporate and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them  such  salaries,  allowances  and  gratuities  as
may be determined by the body corporate;

(h)  to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a  view  to  promoting  the  objectives  of  the  body
corporate;

(i) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions  having  similar  objects  to  that  of  the
body  corporate;

(j) to train personnel within and outside Sri Lanka for

the purposes of the body corporate;

(k) to  establish,  print  and  publish  newspapers,  trade
directories,  journals,  magazines  or  periodicals
relating  to  the  activities  of  the  body  corporate  or

6

Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

matters pertaining to the construcion industry and
to disseminate such information in any manner as
the Board of Management may decide; and

(l) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for  the  proper  and  effective  carrying  out  of  the
objects of the body corporate.

Rules  of  the
body  corporate.

7.

(1)  It  shall  be  lawful  for  the  body  corporate,  from
time to time, at any general meeting of the body corporate
and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members
present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:–

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal,  expulsion  or  resignation  of  members
and fees payable by the members;

the  election  of  office  bearers  of  the  Board  of
Management or vacation of or removal from office
of office bearers and the powers, duties and functions
of the office bearers;

the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties of various officers, agents and
servants of the body corporate;

the  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  summoning
and  holding  of  meetings  of  the  Board  of
Management or any sub-committee thereof, notices
and agenda of such  meetings, the quorum and the
conduct of business thereat;

(e)

the qualifications and disqualifications to become
a  member  of  the  Board  of  Management  and  the
body  corporate;

Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

7

(f)

the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate; and

(g) generally the management of the affairs of the body
corporate  and  the  accomplishment  of  its’  objects
and dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any  rule  made  by  the  body  corporate  may  be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting
and in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of
this  section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be published

in the Gazette.

(4)  The members of the body corporate shall at all times

be subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8.  The Board of Management shall maintain a register
of members in which name, address and other essential details
of the members shall be inscribed.

Register  of
members.

9.

(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

Fund  of  the
body  corporate.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,
subscription,  contribution,  fees  or  grants  for  and  on
account of the body corporate shall be deposited in one or
more banks approved by the Board of Management to the
credit of the body corporate.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money
as  are  required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions under the Act.

10.  (1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
Auditing.

8

Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept  of  its  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities
and all other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  the  Auditor  General  or  a  qualified  auditor
appointed by the Auditor General in terms of provisions of
Article 154 of the Constitution.

(4)  For  the  purpose  of  this  section  “qualified  auditor”

means—

(a)

(b)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of  Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  of  any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practise as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or

a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practise
as  an  Accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
Institute.

11.

(1) The Board of Management shall prepare a report
of the activities of the body corporate for each financial year
and submit such report together with the audited statement
of accounts to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister
assigned  the  subject  of  Construction  Industry  and  to  the
Registrar  of  Voluntary  Social  Services  Organizations
appointed under the Voluntary Social Services Organization
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31of 1980 before
the expiration of six months of the year succeeding the year
to which such report relates.

(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and local
moneys  received  by  the  body  corporate  during  the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).

Annual  Report.

Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

9

12. All debts and liabilities of the Chamber existing on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  body  corporate  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to  and  subscriptions  and
contributions payable to the Chamber on that day shall be
paid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable  to
the  Chamber.

13. All  movable  and  immovable  properties  of  the
Chamber  existing  on  the  day  preceeding  the  date  of
commencement of this Act for all purposes shall be vested
in the body corporate hereby consituted, subject to any trust,
condition  or  provision  of  any  written  law  affecting  such
properties.

14. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  the  body
corporate shall be able and capable in law to take and hold
any property, movable or immovable, which may become
vested  in  it  by  virtue  of  any  purchase,  grant,  gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property
shall be held by the body corporate for the purpose of this
Act  and  subject  to  the  rules  of  the  body  corporate  made
under  section  7,  with  power  to  sell,  mortgage,  lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Property  vested
in  the  Chamber.

Body  corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable.

15. The  moneys  and  property  of  the  body  corporate
however  derived,  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion  of  the  objects  of  the  body  corporate  and  no
portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  transferred  directly  or
indirectly by way of divident, bonus or profit to the members
of the body corporate.

Application  of
moneys  and
property.

16.

(1)  The  seal  of  the  body  corporate  shall  not  be
affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence
of    two  members  of  the  Board  of  Management  who  shall
sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.

Seal  of  the  body
corporate.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution.

10

Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Board of Management as may be
decided by the Board of Management.

17.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  body  corporate
there  remains  after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be  distributed  among  the  members  of  the  body  corporate,
but  shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  any  other  institution
having objects similar to those of the body corporate, and
which is by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its members.

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  subsection  (1)  the  appropriate
institution  shall  be  determined  by  the  members  of
the  body  corporate  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at
a  general  meeting  by  the  majority  of  votes  of  the
members present.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic.

18. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency.

19.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Chamber of Construction Industry of
Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019

11

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

