PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

PUBLIC  DEBT  MANAGEMENT
ACT, NO. 33 OF 2024

[Certified on 18th of  June, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 20, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

1

[Certified on 18th of June, 2024]

L. D.- O. 66/2023

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR PUBLIC DEBT MANAGEMENT INCLUDING THE
AUTHORISATION TO BORROW, TO ISSUE AND TO SERVICE PUBLIC
DEBT AND ISSUING GUARANTEES, ON-LENDING, ENTER INTO
SUPPLIER’S CREDIT AND FINANCE LEASE AGREEMENTS; FOR THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PUBLIC DEBT MANAGEMENT OFFICE AND
FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.  (1)  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Public  Debt

Management Act, No. 33 of 2024.

(2)  The  provisions  of  this  Act  other  than  this  section,
shall come into operation on such date as the Minister may
by Order published in the Gazette appoint (in this Act referred
to as the “appointed date”).

(3)  The  provisions  of  this  section  shall  come  into
operation on the date on which the Bill becomes an Act of
Parliament.

(4)  The  appointed  date  shall  be  a  date  not  later  than  a
period of six months from the date on which the provisions
of this section come into operation.

2. This Act shall apply to the following entities: -

(a) Ministries, Departments, District Secretariats of
the Government, and Special Spending Units;

(b)

  statutory  funds  and  trusts  to  which  public
finance  is  allocated  with  the  approval  of  the
Parliament;

(c) State-owned enterprises;

(d) Provincial  Councils,  Ministries,  Departments,
other  institutions  coming  under  the  Provincial
Councils and local authorities; and

(e)

any other entity.

2—PL  014556—480  (05/2024)

Short  title  and
date  of
operation

Application  of
this  Act

2

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

Public  debt
management
objectives

3. Public debt management is the process of establishing
and  executing  a  medium  term  to  long  term  strategy  for
managing public debt with the following objectives:–

(a)

(b)

to  meet  financing  needs  and  debt  payment
obligations on a timely basis;

to borrow at the lowest costs as possible over the
medium term to long term, consistent with a prudent
degree of risk; and

(c)

to promote the development of the domestic debt
securities market.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PUBLIC DEBT MANAGEMENT OFFICE

Establishment  of
the  Public  Debt
Management
Office  of
Sri  Lanka

4. There shall be established an office called the Public
Debt  Management  Office  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“Office”)  within  the  Ministry  of  Finance  which  shall  be
responsible for the –

(a) management of the debt of the Government;

(b)

 issuance and management of loan guarantees;

(c) management of on-lending operations; and

(d)

recording and reporting of public debt.

Director-General
of  the  Office

5. (1) There shall be a Director-General appointed by the

Cabinet of Ministers.

(2) The Director-General shall be the head of the Office
and be responsible for the overall operations of the Office.

(3) The terms and conditions of employment including
remuneration  for  all  employees  of  the  Office  shall  be
determined  by  the  prevailing  Government  regulations  as
may be applicable from time to time.

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

3

6. The Office shall exercise and perform the following
powers and functions subject to the provisions of section 3:-

Powers  and
functions  of  the
Office

( a) preparation and publication of –

(i)

the medium-term debt management strategy;

(ii)

the annual borrowing plan; and

(iii) auction  calendars  for  the  issuance  of

Government securities;

(b) negotiation of financial terms and conditions and
execution  of  domestic  and  external  borrowings,
other  credit  arrangements  and  debt  management
activities of the Government:

    Provided  that,  the  Government’s  external
borrowings from bilateral and multilateral agencies
shall  be  executed  in  coordination  with  the
Department  in  charge  of  the  subject  of  External
Resources of the Treasury;

(c) maintenance  of  relationships,  as  necessary  for
achieving  and  maintaining  access  to  financial
markets;

(d)

coordination of debt operations in relation to cash
flow management with the Department in charge of
the subject of Treasury Operations of the Treasury;

(e) preparation and execution of debt related liability

management  operations;

(f)

(g)

assessment  of  the  credit  risk  and  advise  on  risk
mitigation mechanism of loan guarantees and on-
lending  operations;

recording, reporting, dissemination and publication
of  public  debt,  loan  guarantees,  on-lending,
suppliers’  credit  and  finance  lease  in  accordance
with this Act;

4

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

(h)

servicing of the debt of the Government on a timely
basis in accordance with this Act;

(i) preparation of debt service forecasts based on both
present and forecasted debt of the Government; and

(j)

any  other  function,  the  Minister  may  assign  in
carrying out the objectives under section 3.

Powers  of  the
Minister  to  issue
guidelines  and
directions

7. The Minister may issue to the Office, such guidelines
or  directions  in  writing  as  are  not  inconsistent  with  the
provision of this Act, relating to the policy to be followed in
the exercise and performance of the powers and functions of
the Office.

PART II

PUBLIC DEBT COORDINATING COMMITTEE

Establishment
of  the  Public
Debt
Coordinating
Committee

8.  (1)  There  shall  be  a  Public  Debt  Coordinating
Committee appointed by the Minister (hereinafter referred
to  as  the  “Committee”)  to  coordinate  at  policy  level,
consisting of –

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury who shall act
as the Chairperson;

the Director-General of the department in charge of
the subject of Treasury Operations of the Treasury;

the Director-General of the department in charge of
the subject of Fiscal Policy of the Treasury;

the Director-General of the department in charge of
the subject of External Resources of the Treasury;

the Director-General of the department in charge of
the subject of National Budget of the Treasury;

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

5

(f)

(g)

the Director-General of the department in charge of
the subject of Public Enterprises of the Treasury;

two officers of the Central Bank not below the rank
of Director nominated by the Governor of the Central
Bank;  and

(h)

the Director-General of the Office.

(2) The Director-General of the Office shall nominate a
senior  officer  of  the  Office  to  be  the  Secretary  and  the
Convener of the Committee.

(3) The Committee shall meet at least once in every month.

9.  The  powers,  duties  and  functions  of  the  Committee

shall be to:–

Powers,  duties
and  functions  of
the  Committee

(a)

(b)

(c)

review and opine on the debt management strategy
and its updates prepared by the Office, ensuring the
consistency of the debt management strategy with
macroeconomic  policies;

review  and  opine  on  the  annual  borrowing  plan
and its performance;

review  domestic  and  international  market
conditions  and  provide  recommendations  on  the
risk associated with public debt and opportunities
in  the  market  and  on  official  development
assistance;  and

(d) perform such other functions as may be assigned to
it by the Minister for the purposes of achieving the
objectives under section 3.

10.  (1)  The  quorum  of  the  Committee  shall  be  five

members.

Quorum  and
meetings  of  the
Committee

(2) A meeting of the Committee may be held either –

Debt
management
strategy

6

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

(a) by the number of members who constitute a quorum
being  assembled  at  the  place,  date  and  time
appointed for the meeting; or

(b) by means of audio-visual communication by which
all  members  participating  and  constituting  a
quorum  can  simultaneously  see  and  hear  each
participating member for the duration of the meeting.

PART III

GOVERNMENT BORROWING AND DEBT MANAGEMENT

11. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 3, a medium
term debt management strategy (hereinafter referred to as
the  “strategy”)  for  the  management  of  the  debt  of  the
Government shall be formulated and updated annually on a
rolling five year horizon by the Office.

(2) Such strategy shall be reviewed by the Minister and
submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for its final approval.
The Central Bank shall be given an opportunity to provide
written comments on the draft strategy before the approval
of the Cabinet of Ministers is granted.

(3)  The  approved  strategy  shall  be  aligned  with  the
medium term fiscal framework and published in the official
websites of the Ministry of Finance and of the Office and
tabled in Parliament not later than the second reading of the
Appropriation  Bill  of  the  year  for  which  the  strategy  is
prepared  as  an  accompanying  document  of  the  Annual
Budget Document.

(4)  For  the  purposes  of  achieving  the  objectives  under
section 3, the strategy formulated and updated annually on
a rolling five year horizon under subsection (1), constitutes
the upcoming financial year  and four succeeding financial
years and shall take into account the following:–

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

7

(a)

the  cost  and  risk  embedded  in  the  current  public
debt  portfolio  and  outstanding  derivative
transactions;

(b)

future borrowing requirements;

(c)

the medium term fiscal framework;

(d) market conditions; and

(e)

such  other  factors  as  may  be  relevant  for  the
preparation of the strategy.

(5) The approved strategy shall be reviewed and updated
at least annually by the Office. The updated strategy shall
be submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for approval and
published in the official websites of the Ministry of Finance
and of the Office thereafter.

(6) All borrowings and other debt management operations

shall be in line with the strategy.

12. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister
has  the  sole  authority  to  borrow  and  issue  debt  securities
within or outside Sri Lanka in local or foreign currencies on
behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka.

Borrowing
authorization

(2) Debt of the Government of Sri Lanka shall be charged

on the Consolidated Fund.

13.  (1)  The  purposes  for  which  the  Government  may

borrow are –

Borrowing
purposes

(a)

(b)

(c)

to  finance  any  deficit  in  the  annual  Government
budget approved by Parliament;

to  manage  cash  flow  including  to  build  up  and
maintain a liquidity buffer at a level or at a range
determined by the Minister;

to  lend  funds  to  Provincial  Councils,  local
authorities, State owned enterprises and any other
entity as may be approved by Parliament;

8

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

to  honour  obligations  under  called  Government
guarantees;

to refinance outstanding debt of the Government,
including repayment of a loan or credit prior to its
maturity date and repurchase of Government debt
securities;

to  immediately  respond  to  effects  of  unforeseen
circumstances caused by a catastrophic emergency,
in  cases  where  the  additional  expenditure  cannot
be funded through virement procedures or through
an  allocation  from  the  annual  budget  reserve  or
other  similar  mechanisms  to  make  in-year
adjustments  to  the  annual  budget  as  provided
pursuant to relevant legislation for public financial
management  or  through  the  Contingencies  Fund
under Article 151 of the Constitution;

to  finance  any  expenditure  that  may  arise  under
paragraphs  (3)  and  (4)  of  Article  150  of  the
Constitution;

to support the balance of payments of  Sri Lanka by
replenishing its foreign currency reserves; and

for  any  other  purpose  as  may  be  approved  by
Parliament.

(2)  Where  borrowing  is  for  any  of  the  purposes  of
paragraph (f) of subsection (1), the Minister shall as soon as
practicable but not later than fifteen working days after the
conclusion of such borrowing, inform Parliament of the terms
and conditions of the borrowing.

14. (1) At the request of the Central Bank, the Government
may issue debt securities for the sole purpose of supporting
the implementation of the monetary policy objectives.

Issuance  of
Government
debt  securities
for  the
implementation
of  the  monetary
policy  objectives

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

9

(2) Where debt securities are issued under subsection (1),
the proceeds from the issuance of the debt securities shall be
deposited in a segregated account of the Central Bank and
shall be used exclusively to redeem those debt securities.

(3)  Any  Cost  to  the  Government  resulting  from  the
issuance of such debt securities shall be fully reimbursed by
the Central Bank.

(4) These issuances shall not be subject to any borrowing
limits  and  their  outstanding  values  shall  be  recorded  in
the debt stock and reported in the annual report as a separate
item under section 25.

(5)  The  responsibilities  and  procedure  relating  to  the
issuance  of  debt  securities  under  this  section  shall  be
stipulated under a memorandum of understanding between
the Minister on behalf of the Government and the Central
Bank and comply with the provisions of the Central Bank of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 16 of 2023.

15. (1) The Office shall prepare a borrowing plan for each
financial year (in this Act referred to as the “borrowing plan”)
to meet the aggregate borrowing requirement in accordance
with  the  Appropriation  Act  for  any  given  year.  Such
borrowing plan shall be reviewed at least half yearly.

(2)  The  borrowing  plan  shall  take  account  of  the
determined  strategy,  annual  gross  borrowing  ceiling  and
the cash flow forecast for the Government and include –

(a) planned  borrowings  and  other  debt  management

operations over the year;

(b)

tentative  instruments  to  be  used  and  sources  of
borrowing; and

(c)

indicative timing of these operations.

Annual
borrowing  plan

10

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

(3) The borrowing plan and its updates shall be prepared
in consultation with the relevant Departments of the Treasury
and  the  relevant  Government  agencies  as  decided  by  the
Secretary  to  the  Treasury  and  shall  be  submitted  for  the
approval of the Cabinet of Ministers.

(4)  The  Minister  shall  table  the  borrowing  plan  in
Parliament  not  later  than  the  second  reading  of  the
Appropriation  Bill,  as  an  accompanying  document  of  the
Annual Budget Document, and shall arrange for the separate
publication of the borrowing plan document by the end of
the financial year preceding the year for which the borrowing
plan is prepared. The updated borrowing plan if any, shall
be submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for its approval and
published in the official websites of the Ministry of Finance
and of the Office.

Issuance  of
Government
debt  securities  in
the  domestic
market

16.  (1)  Issuance  of  Government  debt  securities  in  the
domestic  market  by  the  Office  shall  either  be  by  way  of
auction in accordance with the auction calendar or any other
market based mechanism.

(2) The auction calendar shall be published in the websites
of  the  Ministry  of  Finance  and  of  the  Office  at  least  two
weeks  prior  to  the  first  issuance  date  planned  under  the
auction calendar and shall cover a minimum of three calendar
months on rolling basis from the date of its publication.

(3) On the recommendation of the Minister and with the
approval  of  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers,  Government  debt
securities may be issued in the domestic market by way of
non-market based mechanisms.

17.  The  Minister  on  the  recommendation  of  the  Office
and on such terms and conditions approved by the Cabinet
of  Ministers  may  borrow  from  banks,  other  financial
institutions,  sovereign  lenders  or  any  other  person  or
institution through loan agreements or obtaining advances
by overdraft.

Borrowing
directly  by  the
Government

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

11

18.  (1)  The  Minister  or  any  other  person  specially
authorised  in  writing  by  the  Minister  on  behalf  of  the
Government  may,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
section 3 and the strategy, undertake liability management
operations  including  –

Liability
management
operations

(a)

interest  rate  and  currency  swaps  and  other
derivatives  used  as  hedges  against  the  financial
risks embedded in the Government’s debt portfolio,
having considered it prudent to do so for the purpose
of effective public debt management;

(b) buybacks  and  exchanges  of  Government  debt

securities; and

(c) offering  of  early  repayment  of  a  loan  prior  to  its

date of maturity.

(2)  Transactions  related  to  liability  management
operations shall not be subject to any gross or net issuance
limit stipulated in the annual budget and shall comply with
the debt reduction objective pursuant to relevant legislation
on fiscal responsibility and public financial management.

PART IV

GOVERNMENT LOAN GUARANTEES, GOVERNMENT ON-LENDING,
SUPPLIERS’ CREDIT AGREEMENTS AND FINANCE LEASE AGREEMENTS

 19. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister
shall have the sole authority for the issuance and management
of loan guarantees including the collection of loan guarantee
fees on behalf of the Government in respect of obligations
of  a  Provincial  Council,  local  authority,  State  owned
enterprise or any other entity:

Government
loan  guarantees

12

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

Provided that, the Minister shall take into consideration

the following when issuing such loan guarantees: -

(a)

(b)

(c)

the borrower is not in any financial difficulty based
on a credit risk assessment;

the loan guarantee is deemed to promote economic
development of Sri Lanka; and

the  loan  guarantee  shall  be  subject  to  the  debt
reduction  objective  in  relation  to  the  relevant
written  law  on  fiscal  responsibility  and  public
financial management.

(2)  The  issuance  of  loan  guarantees  in  respect  of
obligations  of  any  other  entity  other  than  Provincial
Councils, local authorities or State owned enterprises shall
be further subject to the approval of Parliament.

(3)  Where  the  borrower  is  deemed  to  be  in  financial
difficulty based on the credit risk assessment, the guarantee
shall not be issued.

(4) Prior to submitting the issuance of a loan guarantee to
the Cabinet of Ministers for approval, the Office shall assess
and  price  the  credit  risk  to  the  Government  from  such
guarantee  and  recommend  the  risk  mitigation  mechanism
including guarantee fees.

(5) The result of the risk assessment, the method used in
the assessment and the proposed risk mitigation mechanism
shall  be  submitted  to  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  for  its
approval.

(6) Each loan guarantee shall be supported by relevant
legal  documentation  executed  by  the  borrower  which
includes provisions that agree to among others to repay any
amount paid under the guarantee if called with interest as
may  be  prescribed  and  to  fully  disclose  any  information
requested by the Office.

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

13

(7) In the event that the borrower neglects or fails to make
good on its obligations under the loan guarantee agreement,
the  Minister  shall  have  the  right  to  pursue  any  action
necessary to recover from the borrower any money owed to
the Government under such loan guarantee agreement.

20. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister
shall have the sole authority to on-lend Government funds
to  a  Provincial  Council,  local  authority,  State  owned
enterprise or any other entity:

On-lending

Provided that, the Minister shall take into consideration

the following when on-lending such Government funds: -

(a)

(b)

the borrower is not in any financial difficulty based
on a credit risk assessment; and

the  on-lending  is  deemed  to  promote  economic
development of Sri Lanka.

(2) The on-lending funds in respect of obligations of any
other entity other than Provincial Councils, local authorities
or  State  owned  enterprises  shall  be  further  subject  to  the
approval of Parliament.

(3)  Where  the  borrower  is  deemed  to  be  in  financial
difficulty, based on the credit risk assessment the on-lending
transaction shall not take place.

(4)  Prior  to  submitting  the  on-lending  of  Government
funds to the Cabinet of Ministers for its approval, the Office
shall, assess and price the credit risk to the Government in
providing  such  loan  and  recommend  the  level  of  interest
rate  to  cover  the  funding  cost,  any  currency  risk  and  the

credit risk to the Government.

14

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

(5) The result of the risk assessment, the method used in
the  assessment  and  the  proposed  interest  rate  shall  be
submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for its approval.

(6)  The  borrower  shall  pay  an  interest  at  the  rate  as
the
approved  by 
recommendation of the Office that covers the funding cost,
currency risk and the credit risk to the Government.

the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  on 

(7)  Each  on-lending  transaction  shall  be  supported  by
relevant legal documentation executed by the borrower and
shall include an agreement to service its debt obligations on
due dates and other terms and conditions including a clause

on penal interest in the event the borrower neglects or fails
to honour any payment obligations.

Supplier’s  Credit
agreements
entered  into  by
the  Government

21. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister
shall have the sole authority to enter into supplier’s credit
agreements for procurement of capital goods or construction

or maintenance for public investment projects on behalf of
the Government.

(2)  Supplier’s  credit  agreements  that  come  under  the

purview of the Office shall be as prescribed. Prior to entering

into such agreements, the Office shall assess the cost incurred

by  the  Government  in  entering  into  such  agreements  and

send the recommendation to the Minister or to the person
specially authorized by the Minister.

Finance  lease
agreements
entered  into  by
the  Government

22. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Minister

shall  have  the  sole  authority  to  enter  into  finance  lease

agreements on behalf of the Government.

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

15

(2) Finance lease agreements that come under the purview

of  the  Office  and  the  form,  terms  and  duration  of  such

agreements shall be as prescribed. Prior to entering into such

agreements,  the  Office  shall  assess  their  cost  to  the

Government and send the recommendation to the Minister

or to the person specially authorised by the Minister.

PART V

RECORDS AND PUBLICATION OF PUBLIC DEBT AND FINANCE
ARRANGEMENTS

23.  (1)  The  Office  shall  maintain  records  of  timely,

comprehensive and accurate data and information of –

Records  of
Public  debt  and
finance
arrangements

(a) outstanding  public  debt;

(b)

supplier’s credit agreements;

(c)

finance lease agreements;

(d) derivative  transactions;

(e)

loan guarantees; and

(f) on-lending  operations,

in an appropriate database.

(2) In carrying out the functions under this section, the

Office shall have the power to request from entities under

16

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

section 2, data and information concerning outstanding loan
guarantees and on-lending, credit institutions coming under
on-lending  and  non  guaranteed  debt  and  such  other
information as may be required under this Act.

Publication  of
Public  debt  and
finance
arrangements

24. The Office shall no later than sixty days from the end
of each quarter, prepare and publish a quarterly statistical
debt  bulletin  on  public  debt  that  provides  accurate  and
timely information on, among others -

(a)

aggregate debt stock, debt flows, debt service cost,
and  redemption  profile  and  risk  measures  of  the
debt  portfolio  and  any  new  borrowing  of  the
Government;

(b) details of derivatives;

(c) details of loan guarantees;

(d)

aggregate  of  non-guaranteed  debt  stock  of  State
owned  enterprises,  Provincial  Councils  and  local
authorities;

(e) details  of  on-lending  facilities  provided  by  the

Government under section 20;

(f) details of supplier’s credit agreements entered into
by  the  Government  under  subsection  (2)  of
section  21;

(g) details of finance lease agreements entered into by
the Government under subsection (2) of section 22;
and

(h)

the  outstanding  values  of  issuances  of  debt
securities  for  the  purpose  of  supporting  the
implementation  of  monetary  policy  objectives
under section 14.

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

17

PART VI

ANNUAL REPORTING TO PARLIAMENT

25. (1) The Office shall for each year prepare an annual
report  on  Government  borrowings  and  other  debt
management operations, outstanding public debt, guarantees
and  on-lending  activities  and  other  finance  arrangements
entered into over the previous financial year.

Annual  report  of
the  Office  to
Parliament

(2) The annual report shall include –

(a)

 information on the strategy referred to in section
11 and its rationale;

(b)

information  on  the  contribution  of  the  strategy
and  the  borrowing  plan,  their  execution  in
achieving  the  debt  management  objectives  as
stated  in  section  3  and  the  rationale  for  any
deviations;

(c) debt  disbursements  and  related  debt  services  of
the  Government  presented  including  by  type  of
creditor and instrument;

(d) a  list  of  the  outstanding  loan  guarantees  of  the
Government, issued to Provincial Councils, local
authorities, State owned enterprises and any other
entity  including  the  amount;

(e) a  list  of  loans  on-lent  including  outstanding

amounts;

(f)

  outstanding  supplier’s  credit  agreements  and
finance lease agreements which comes under the
purview of the Office including the financial terms
of those contracts;

18

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

(g)

information  on  any  debt  service  arrears  of  the
Government; and

(h) any  other  information  related  to  public  debt

management.

(3) The Minister shall review the draft annual report and
submit  it  to  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  for  its  approval  and
table the approved annual report before Parliament not later
than  hundred  and  eighty  days  following  the  end  of  the
preceding financial year and publish such approved annual
report in the official websites of the Ministry of Finance and
the Office.

PART VII

BORROWING AND ISSUANCE OF GUARANTEES BY  STATE OWNED
ENTERPRISES AND REPORTING BY PROVINCIAL COUNCILS, LOCAL
AUTHORITIES AND STATE OWNED ENTERPRISES

Borrowing  and
issuance  of
guarantees  to
and  by  State
owned
enterprises

26. (1) Any public issue of debt securities and any raising
of funds denominated in foreign currency by a State owned
enterprise  shall  comply  with  the  debt  reduction  objective
pursuant to any law for the time being in force relating to
fiscal responsibility and public financial management and
shall require prior written approval of the Minister.

(2)  The  approval  of  the  Minister  under  subsection  (1)
shall be accompanied by an assessment of the proposed debt
based  on  the  debt  reduction  objective,  the  current  and
projected fiscal, financial and debt environment. The criteria
for  assessment,  the  procedure  and  such  other  matters
pertinent to the assessment may be as prescribed.

(3) For the purpose of obtaining approval for the public
issue of debt securities and raising of funds under subsection
(1), State owned enterprises shall submit to the Office all
terms and conditions for each of these planned borrowings
and a copy of the debt contract after the borrowing has taken
place.

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

19

(4) Any issuance of guarantees to and by a State owned
enterprise  shall  require  the  prior  written  approval  of  the
Minister.

  27. A State owned enterprise shall submit to the Office a
record of its outstanding debt not later than forty five days
after the end of each quarter and shall upon a request made
under section 23, submit to the Office such information and
data  on  its  total  outstanding  debt  including  the  non
guaranteed debt as it may specify.

Reporting
requirements  of
State  owned
enterprises

28.  Each  Provincial  Council  and  local  authority  shall
submit  to  the  Office  a  record  of  its  outstanding  debt,
including  the  outstanding  non  guaranteed  debt,  not  later
than forty five days after the end of each quarter.

Reporting
requirements  of
Provincial
Councils  and
local  authorities

PART VIII

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

29. (1) Every entity referred to in section 2 shall furnish
information  required  by  this  Act  to  the  Office  within  the
period and in the form specified by the Office.

Obligation  to
provide
information

(2) Any public officer or a governing body of an entity
referred to in section 2, to whom the exercise of the powers,
discharge of the duties and the performance of the functions
of the entity are assigned is required to furnish information
under subsection (1) -

(a) makes  any  false  or  misleading  statement  or
declaration or gives any misleading information
for  any  statement,  declaration  or  information
required  to  be  made  or  given  under  this  Act  or
regulation  made  thereunder;

(b) resists or obstructs the duties and functions of the

Office; or

Protection  of
market-sensitive
information

20

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

(c) fails  or  refuses  to  furnish  any  information,
document, report or material within the specified
period unless prohibited by any other law for the
time being in force,

commits  an  offence  and  upon  conviction  by  a  competent
court be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty five thousand
rupees  or  to  a  term  of  imprisonment  not  exceeding  three
months.

30. (1) When the disclosure of information contained in
administrative acts, contracts, agreements or documentation
related  to  the  issuance,  placement  or  repurchase  of
Government  debt  securities,  could  generate  losses  or
conditions unfavourable to the interests of the Government,
the respective administrative acts, contracts, agreements or
documentation may be declared secret and reserved by the
Office, until the information prior to the auction or respective
transaction is provided in the market in the case of placement
and repurchase. Immediately thereafter, all information shall
be  published.

(2) Any person who is involved in the implementation of
the provisions of this Act and thereby becomes aware of, or
has access to, information about intended activities or public
debt operations, of which information the person knows are
of  confidential  nature  or  should  reasonably  suspect,  is
obliged to maintain the confidentiality of such information,
except to the extent that a legal obligation shall require the
communication  of  such  information  prior  to  the  intended
activities or public debt operations.

(3)  Any  person  who  contravenes  the  provisions  of
subsection  (1)  or  subsection  (2)  commits  an  offence  and
shall on conviction by a competent court, be liable to a fine
not exceeding twenty five thousand rupees or to a term of
imprisonment not exceeding three months or to both such
fine and imprisonment.

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

21

PART IX

GENERAL

31. (1) The Minister  may, where he considers it expedient
to do so, appoint issuing agents, process agents, and other
agents  and  the  office  shall  have  the  authority  to  regulate,
supervise and monitor such agents as may be prescribed.

Power  to
appoint  agents
and  hire  experts

  For the avoidance of doubt, the power specified in this
subsection  includes  the  appointment  of  process  agents,  in
the event where any legal disputes may be tried and settled
in any other country.

(2) The Minister shall appoint primary dealers with the
recommendation of the Central Bank to facilitate primary
and  secondary  market  transactions  in  Government  debt
securities.

(3) The appointment of primary dealers shall be subject
to  such  terms  and  conditions  as  the  Office  may  deem
appropriate, and shall include the following:-

(a)

the financial standing of the entity;

(b)

the entity’s experiences and the ability to perform
the  duties  that  will  be  imposed  on  it  by  or  under
this Act;

(c)

the entity’s compliance with legal and regulatory
requirements; and

(d) public  interest.

(4) The  primary  dealers  appointed  under  the  Local
Treasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417) and Registered Stock
and Securities Ordinance (Chapter 420) shall continue to be
primary  dealers  under  this  Act  and  be  subject  to  the
Regulations made by the Minister under this Act.

22

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

(5) (a) The power to regulate, supervise and monitor the
primary dealers appointed under subsection (2),  and under
the Local Treasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417) and the
Registered  Stock  and  Securities  Ordinance  (Chapter  420)
shall be vested with the Central Bank;

(b) The offences committed or that may be committed
by a primary dealer under the Local Treasury Bills Ordinance
(Chapter  417)  and  the  Registered  Stock  and  Securities
Ordinance (Chapter 420) shall be tried and proceeded with
and be subject to the same punishment specified under the
respective  Ordinances  and  any  investigation,  examination
that is or will be carried out or any suit, action or litigation
instituted or to be instituted for such offences shall be carried
out,  heard  or  concluded  as  the  case  may  be,  under  the
provisons of the respective Ordinances.

(6) The Central Bank shall inform the Minister on non-
compliance of the primary dealers with legal and regulatory
requirements, which may constitute a ground for cancelation
or  suspention  of  its  appointment  as  a  primary  dealer
irrespective of it’s performance of duties as a primary dealer.

(7) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose
of appointment of primary dealers and the conditions to be
observed by, the privileges of and the duties to be performed
by the primary dealers appointed under this Act.

(8) All  rules,  regulations,  directions,  determinations,
Orders, approvals or refusals, notices, circulars, operating
instructions,  code  of  conduct  or  any  other  written
communication made or issued by the Minister or the Central
Bank  or  any  officer  of  the  Central  Bank  in  respect  of  the

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

23

Primary  dealers  appointed  under  the  Local  Treasury  Bills
Ordinance  (Chapter  417)  and  the  Registered  Stock  and
Securities Ordinance (Chapter 420) and subsisting or having
effect on the day immediately preceding the appointed day
shall continue to be in operation and be applicable to primary
dealers appointed under this Act.

(9) The Minister may hire or retain the services of such
professionals, consultants and experts, as may be necessary
on  such  terms  and  conditions  to  be  agreed  upon,  for  the
proper and effective performance of his functions under this
Act:

Provided that, the cost of those appointments, if any,
and the cost to hire professionals’ consultants and experts
shall be within the provisions of the  relevant Appropriation
Act.

(10) The Minister shall by Order published in the Gazette
designate  a  securities  depository  system  to  electronically
issue  scripless  securities,  store  holdings  of  and  to  record
ownership  and  interests  in  such  securities  and  to  settle
transactions in such securities in accordance with the relevant
written law:

Provided that, until such designation is made, the Registry
that is established and maintained by the Central Bank under
the relevant laws for the securities issued by the Government
shall continue to be in operation.

32. The Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette
delegate to the Secretary to the Treasury, Deputy Secretary

Power  to
delegate

24

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

to the Treasury, or the Director-General of the Office as the
case may be, any power conferred on the Minister by this
Act subject to such conditions, reservations and restrictions
as may be specified in such Order other than his power to
make  regulations  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
section  35.

Consequences  of
unauthorised
transactions  and
how  to  exclude
them

33. The Government shall not be bound by the terms of
any  loan  agreement,  finance  lease  agreement,  supplier’s
credit  agreement,  derivative  or  any  guarantee  issued,  or
purported to be contracted or issued for or on its behalf by
any other, other than the Minister or public officer authorised
in writing in that behalf by the Minister.

Protection  from
action

Regulations

34.  No  civil  or  criminal  proceedings  shall  be  instituted
against the Secretary to the Treasury, Deputy Secretary to
the Treasury, Director-General or any employee of the Office
or any member of the Committee as the case may be, for any
act which in good faith is done or purported to be done or
omitted to be done by him under this Act pursuant to and in
the course of the exercise, performance and discharge of the
powers, duties and functions on behalf of the Office, if he
proves  that  he  acted  in  good  faith  and  exercised  all  due
diligence, reasonable care and skill.

35. (1) The Minister may on the recommendation of the
Committee make regulations in respect of matters required
by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of which regulations
are  necessary  to  be  made  in  order  to  give  effect  to  the
objectives and the provisions of this Act.

(2)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  shall  be
published  in  the  Gazette  and  shall  be  brought  before
Parliament  for  its  approval  within  three  months  of  its
publication in the Gazette. Such regulations shall come into
force  upon  its  approval  by  Parliament  or  any  subsequent
date as may be specified by Parliament. Any regulation which
is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from the
date of such disapproval.

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

25

(3) Notification of the date on which any regulation is so

disapproved shall be published in the Gazette.

36. (1)  The  provisions  of  this  Act  shall  have  effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other written
law  and  accordingly,  in  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  or
conflict between the provisions of this Act and such other
written law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

Provisions  of
this  Act  to
prevail  over
other  written  law

(2) Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), the
provisions of this Act shall prevail in relation to the authority
of the Minister to borrow, issue Government debt securities,
loan  guarantees,  supplier’s  credit  agreements  and  finance
lease agreements and the appointment of primary dealers to
facilitate  primary  and  secondary  market  transactions  in
Government debt securities.

37. The applicability of section 132 of the Central Bank
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 16 of 2023, shall come into operation
on such date as the Minister may by Order published in the
Gazette  appoint  within  a  period  of  eighteen  months  from
the  appointed  date:

Interim
arrangement  to
operationlise  the
Office

Provided that, notwithstanding the provisions of this
section,  the  Office  may  perform  its  powers  and  functions
under this Act.

38.  Government debt Securities, loan agreements, finance
lease agreements, supplier’s credit agreements, derivatives
or any guarantees issued or entered into, before the appointed
date shall be deemed with effect from the appointed date to
be entered into under this Act.

Arrangements
for  the
applicability  of
existing
borrowing
instruments

  39.  In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires –

Interpretation

"Annual  Budget  Document”  means  the  document
prepared  pursuant  to  relevant  legislations  for
public  financial  management  which  consists
of –

26

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

(a)

(b)

the  estimates  of 
revenue  and
expenditure  in  the  forms  as  may  be
prescribed; and

the  Appropriation  Bill  that  includes,
inter alia estimates of expenditure and
borrowing  ceilings;

“any  other  entity”  means  any  entity  established  under
the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 or any other
written law and which is approved by Parliament
to  receive  Government  loan  guarantees  or
on-lending  funds;

“borrowing” means the procedures for raising funds by
concluding  loan  agreements,  obtaining
advances from commercial banks and by issuing
debt securities and “borrow” shall be construed
accordingly;

“Central  Bank”  means  Central  Bank  of  Sri  Lanka
established  by  the  Central  Bank  of  Sri  Lanka
Act, No. 16 of 2023;

“debt” includes all financial liabilities created by –

(i)  borrowing;

 (ii) entering into supplier’s credit agreements

and financial lease agreements;

(iii) issuances  of  debt  securities  for  any  other

purpose than borrowing; and

(iv) assumptions of payment obligations under
guaranteed loans that have been called;

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

27

“debt  of  the  Government”  means  liabilities  created  by
debt  and  debt  raised  by  the  entities  specified
under paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 2;

“debt  securities”  means  securities  issued  in  electronic
(dematerialized) form or in paper form, to named
persons  or  as  bearer  instruments  and  may  be
negotiable  or  non-negotiable  which  includes
Treasury  bills  and  bonds,  promissory  notes,
certificates,  notes,  commercial  papers  or  any
other  similar  instruments  by  which  money  is
raised from the public;

“derivatives” means instruments used for hedge against
the financial risk embedded in the Government
debt  portfolio  and  may  include  interest  and
currency swaps or such similar instruments;

“finance lease agreements” means a long-term financial
arrangement, whereby the user of the asset (the
lessee) pays a series of rentals or instalments to
the  purchaser  or  the  owner  of  that  asset  (the
lessor)  covering  the  full  cost  (including  the
financing costs and a profit margin of the lessor)
of the leased asset and at the end of the lease has
the option to acquire the asset at a fixed price;

“financial year” means the calendar year;

“Government” means the Government of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka;

“guarantee”  means  an  explicit  undertaking  by  the
Government  as  the  guarantor  to  guarantee  the
fulfillment of contracted obligations of another
legal  person  or  entity  under  certain  specified
conditions;

28

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

“loan  guarantee”  means  a  guarantee  where  the
Government  as  the  guarantor  undertakes  to
honour the payment obligations of the borrower
under the terms of a specific loan;

“local authorities” means all municipal councils, urban

councils and pradeshiya sabhas;

“Minister”  means  the  Minister  assigned  the  subject  of
Finance  under  Article  44  or  45  of  the
Constitution;

“prescribed” means prescribed by regulations;

“public debt” means liabilities created by debt and debt
of entities referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c)
and (d) of section 2;

“Sovereign  lenders”  means  Governments  of  foreign
countries with whom Sri Lanka has diplomatic
and trade relations or bilateral agreements and
which  are  members  of  the  United  Nations
Organization;

“special  spending  unit”  means  an  entity,  other  than  a
Ministry, Department, District Secretariat or a
Provincial  Council  that  has  been  given  an
Expenditure Head in the relevant Appropriation
Act;

“State  owned  enterprises”  means  with  the  exception  of
the  Central  Bank  of  Sri  Lanka  and  financial
institutions  including  insurance  and  leasing
companies which part or all of whose business is
to lend or borrow, an entity that is –

(i)

 a Public Corporation within the meaning
of  the  Constitution;

(ii)

(iii)

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

29

entities established and operated under the
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 in which
the State has direct controlling interest by
virtue of its shareholding; or

State-owned  corporations,  converted  in
terms  of  the  Conversion  of  Public
Corporations  or  Government  Owned
Business  Undertakings  into  Public
Companies  under  the  Conversion  of
Public  Corporations  or  Government
Owned Business undertakings into Public
Companies  Act,  No.  23  of  1987  or  such
other Acts in terms of which any business
the
entity  has  been  vested  with 
Government.

“statutory  funds”  means  any  fund,  other  than  the
Consolidated Fund, created or established by or
under  any  written  law  for  a  specific  purpose  to
which  public  finances  are  allocated  excluding
approved termination funds which includes thrift,
savings  or  building  society  or  welfare  fund  to
which contributions are made by employees or,
any gratuity fund maintained for the purpose of
payment  of  gratuities  to  employees  on  the
termination  of  their  services  under  the  relevant
written law.

40. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

30

Public Debt Management
Act, No. 33 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

