PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

PERSONAL  DATA  PROTECTION
ACT, No. 9 OF 2022

[Certified on 19th of March, 2022]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 25, 2022

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 75.00

Postage : Rs. 45.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

1

[Certified on 19th of March, 2022]

L.D.—O. 19/2019.

AN ACT TO  PROVIDE FOR THE REGULATION OF PROCESSING OF PERSONAL
DATA; TO IDENTIFY AND STRENGTHEN THE RIGHTS OF DATA SUBJECTS
IN RELATION TO THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA; TO PROVIDE
FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DATA PROTECTION  AUTHORITY;
AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO

WHEREAS it has become necessary to facilitate the growth
and innovation in the digital economy in Sri Lanka whilst
ensuring the protection of personal data rights of the data
subjects:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  it  has  become  necessary  to  improve
interoperability among personal data protection frameworks
as  well  as  to  strengthen  cross-border  co-operation  among
personal data protection enforcement authorities:

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary for  the government
of Sri Lanka to provide for a legal framework to provide for
mechanisms  for  the  protection  of  personal  data  of  data
subjects ensuring consumer trust and safeguarding privacy
whilst  respecting  domestic  written  laws  and  applicable
international  legal  instruments:

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.

(1)  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Personal  Data

Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022.

Short  Title  and
date  of
operation

(2)  The  provisions  of  this  section,  shall  come  into
operation on the date on which the certificate of the Speaker
is endorsed in respect of this Act in terms of Article 79 of the
Constitution.

2

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

(3) All other provisions of this Act except the provisions
of Part IV and Part V, shall come into operation on such date
as  the  Minister  may,  appoint  by  Order  published  in  the
Gazette,  which  shall  be  a  date  not  earlier  than  eighteen
months and not later than thirty six months from the date of
the certificate of the Speaker referred to in subsection (2).

(4) The date of operation of the provisions of Part IV of
this Act, shall be a date not earlier than twenty-four months
and  not  later  than  forty-eight  months  from  the  date  of
certificate referred to in subsection (2).

(5) The date of operation of the provisions of Part V of
this Act shall be a date appointed by the Minister by Order
published in the Gazette which shall be a date not later than
the date appointed by the Minister under subsection (3).

Application  of
this  Act

2.
data—

(1) This Act shall apply to the processing of personal

(a) where the processing of personal data takes place

wholly or partly within Sri Lanka; or

(b) where the processing of personal data is carried out

by a controller or processor who–

(i) is  domiciled  or  ordinarily  resident  in

Sri Lanka;

(ii) is  incorporated  or  established  under  any

written law of Sri Lanka;

(iii) offers  goods  or  services  to  data  subjects  in
Sri Lanka including the offering of goods or
services  with  specific  targeting  of  data
subjects in Sri Lanka; or

(iv) specifically  monitors  the  behaviour  of  data
subjects in Sri Lanka including profiling with
the intention of making decisions in relation
to the behavior of such data subjects in so far
as such behaviour takes place in Sri Lanka.

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

3

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  paragraphs  (iii)  and  (iv)  of
subsection  (1)  respectively,  the  Authority  may,  determine
by way of rules made under this Act–

(a)

(b)

the  circumstances  in  which  the  specific  targeting
of the data subjects may occur; or

the circumstances in which the specific monitoring
of the data subjects may occur.

(3) This Act shall not apply to–

(a) any personal data processed purely for personal,
domestic  or  household  purposes  by  an
individual;  and

(b) any data other than personal data.

3.

(1)  The  provisions  of  this  Act  shall  have  effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other written
law,  relating  to  the  protection  of  personal  data  of  data
subjects:

The  provisions
of  this  Act  to
prevail  in  case
of  any
inconsistency

Provided however, where a public authority is governed
by any other written law, it shall be lawful for such authority
to carry out processing of personal data in accordance with
the provisions of such written law, in so far as the protection
of personal data of data subjects is consistent with this Act.

(2)  In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
provisions  of  this  Act  and  the  provisions  of  such  written
law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

PART I

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA

4. Every  controller  shall  process  personal  data  in

compliance with the obligations specified under this Act.

Compliance  with
the  data
protection
obligations

Obligation  to
process  personal
data  in  a  lawful
manner

Obligation  to
define  a  purpose
for  personal  data
processing

4

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

5.  The  processing  of  personal  data  shall  be  lawful  if  a

controller is in compliance with—

(a)

any condition specified in Schedule I hereto;

(b)

(c)

any condition specified in Schedule II hereto in the
case  of  processing  special  categories  of  personal
data;

all the conditions specified in Schedule III hereto
in the case of processing personal data based on the
consent  of  the  data  subject  under  item  (a)  of
Schedule I or under item (a) of Schedule II hereto;
or

(d)

all the conditions specified in Schedule IV hereto
in the case of processing personal data in respect of
criminal  investigations.

6.

(1) Every controller shall, ensure that personal data

is processed for a—

(a)

specified;

(b)

explicit;  and

(c)

legitimate,

purposes and such personal data shall not be further processed
in a manner which is   incompatible with such purposes.

(2)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  section  10  of  this  Act,
further processing of such personal data by a controller for
archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific research,
historical  research  or  statistical  purposes  shall  not  be
considered  to  be  incompatible  with  the  initial  purposes
referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of subsection (1).

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

5

7. Every controller shall ensure that personal data that

is processed shall be—

(a)

adequate;

(b)

relevant;  and

(c) proportionate,

to the extent as is necessary in relation to the purpose for
which such data shall be collected or processed.

8. Every controller shall ensure that personal data that

is processed shall be—

(a)

accurate;  and

(b) kept up to date,

Obligation  to
confine  personal
data  processing
to  the  defined
purpose

Obligation  to
ensure  accuracy

with  every  reasonable  step  being  taken  to  erase  or  rectify
any  inaccurate  or  outdated  personal  data,  without  undue
delay.

9. Every controller shall ensure that personal data that
is  being  processed  shall  be  kept  in  a  form  which  permits
identification of data subjects only for such period as may
be  necessary  or  required  for  the  purposes  for  which  such
personal data is processed:

Obligation  to
limit  the  period
of  retention

Provided  however,  subject  to  the  provisions  of  section
10 of this Act, a controller may store personal data for longer
periods  in  so  far  as  the  personal  data  shall  be  processed
further for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific
research, historical research or statistical purposes.

10. Every  controller  shall  ensure  integrity  and
confidentiality of personal data that is being processed, by
using  appropriate  technical  and  organizational  measures

Obligation  to
maintain
Integrity  and
confidentiality

6

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

including encryption, pseudonymisation, anonymisation or
access controls or such other measures as may be prescribed
so as to prevent the –

(a) unauthorized  or  unlawful  processing  of  personal

data; or

(b)

loss, destruction or damage of personal data.

11. A controller shall, provide data subjects—

(a) the information referred to in Schedule V; and

(b) the information regarding any decision taken
pursuant to a request made under PART II of
this Act,

in writing or by electronic means and in a concise, transparent,
intelligible and easily accessible form.

Obligation  to
process  personal
data  in  a
transparent
manner

Accountability
in  the  processing
of  personal  data

12.

(1)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  controller  to
implement  internal  controls  and  procedures,  (hereinafter
referred to as the “Data Protection Management Programme”)
that—

(a)

establishes and maintains duly catalogued records
to  demonstrate  the  manner  in  which  the
implementation of the data protection obligations
referred to in sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 are
carried out by the controller;

(b)

is designed on the basis of structure, scale, volume
and  sensitivity  of  processing  activities  of  the
controller;

(c) provides for appropriate safeguards based on data
protection  impact  assessments  specified  in
section 24;

(d)

is  integrated  into  the  governance  structure  of  the
controller;

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

7

(e)

establishes internal oversight mechanisms;

(f) has a mechanism to receive complaints, conduct of

inquiries and to identify personal data breaches;

(g)

(h)

is  updated  based  on  periodic  monitoring  and
assessments; and

facilitates  the  exercise  of  rights  of  data  subjects
under sections 13, 14, 15, 16 and 18,

for the purpose of complying with the obligations referred
to in sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11.

(2)  The  Authority  shall  from  time  to  time  issue  such
guidelines  in  respect  of  the  Data  Protection  Management
Programme.

PART II

RIGHTS OF DATA SUBJECTS

13.

(1) Every data subject shall have the right to access
to  personal  data  of  such  data  subject  and  to  be  provided
with  a  confirmation  as  to  whether  such  personal  data  has
been  processed  and  such  information  referred  to  in
Schedule V, upon a written request made by such data subject
to the controller.

 (2) The controller shall, upon receipt of a   written request
made by the data subject under subsection (1), provide the
data subject with such information required to be provided
under Schedule V, subject to section 17.

Right  of  access
to  personal  data

14.

(1)  Every  data  subject  shall  have  the  right  to
withdraw  his  consent  at  any  time  upon  a  written  request
made by such data subject if such processing is based on the
grounds specified in item (a) of Schedule I or item (a) of
Schedule II of this Act:

Right  of
withdrawal  of
the  consent  and
the  right  to
object  to
processing

Right  to
rectification  or
completion

8

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

Provided that, the withdrawal of such consent shall not
affect the lawfulness of any processing taken place prior to
such withdrawal.

(2) Every data subject shall have the right to request a
controller in writing, to refrain from further processing of
personal data relating to such data subject, if such processing
is  based  on  the  grounds  specified  in  items  (e)  or  (f)  of
Schedule I or item (f) of Schedule II.

15. Every data subject shall have the right to request a
controller in writing to rectify or complete the personal data
relating  to  such  data  subject  which  is  either  inaccurate  or
incomplete,  and  the  controller  shall,  upon  such  a  written
request  made  by  the  data  subject,  rectify  or  complete  the
personal data without undue delay subject to the provisions
of section 17:

Provided  however,  the  provisions  of  this  section  shall
not  impose  any  obligation  on  a  controller  to  collect  and
process any additional personal data that is not required for
the purpose of processing:

Provided further, where a controller is required to maintain
personal data for the evidentiary purposes under any written
law or on an order of a competent court, the controller shall
refrain from further processing such personal data without
rectifying.

Right  to  erasure

16. Every data subject shall have the right to make a
written  request  to  the  controller  to  have  his  personal  data
erased, under the following circumstances where–

(a)

(b)

the  processing  of  personal  data  is  carried  out  in
contravention  of  the  obligations  referred  to  in
sections 5,6,7,8,9,10 and 11;

the data subject withdraws his consent upon which
the processing is based, in accordance with item (a)
of Schedule I or item (a) of Schedule II;

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

9

(c)

the requirement to erase personal data is required
by any written law or on an order of a competent
court  to  which  the  data  subject  or  controller  is
subject  to.

17.

(1)  Where  a  controller  receives  a  written  request
from  a  data  subject  under  sections  13,  14,  15  or  16,  such
controller  shall  inform  the  data  subject  in  writing,  within
twenty-one  working  days  from  the  date  of  such  request,
whether–

Grant  or  refusal
of  rectification,
completion,
erasure  or
refrain  from
further
processing

(a)

such request has been granted;

(b)

(c)

such request has been refused under subsection (2)
and  the  reasons  thereof  unless  such  disclosure  is
prohibited by any written law; or

 the controller has refrained from further processing
such personal data under sections 14(2) or 15 and
reasons thereof,

and inform the availability of the right of appeal to the data 
subject  in  respect  of  the  decisions  made  by  the  controller 
under paragraphs (b) or (c).

(2) The controller may, refuse to act on a request made 
under sections 13, 14, 15 or 16 of this Act, by a data subject 
having regard to–

(a)

the national security;

(b) public  order;

(c)

(d)

any inquiry conducted, investigation or procedure
carried out under any written law;

the  prevention,  detection,  investigation  or
prosecution of criminal offences;

10

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

(e)

(f)

(g)

 the rights and freedoms of other persons under any
written law;

subject  to  the  provisions  of  subsection  (4),  the
technical  and  operational  feasibility  of  the
controller to act on such request;

  subject  to  the  provisions  of  subsection  (4),  the
inability of the controller to establish the identity
of the data subject; or

(h)

 the requirement to process personal data under any
written law.

(3) A controller shall, record the reasons for any refusal
under subsection (2) and submit such records to the Authority
upon a written request from the Authority.

(4) Where a controller is unable to establish the identity
of a data subject making a request under sections 13, 14, 15
or 16, such controller may, request the data subject to provide
additional information to enable the controller to carry out
such requests.

(5) Any right conferred on a data subject under this Part

may be exercised–

(a) where the data subject is a minor, by parents or a
person who has the parental authority over the minor
or who has been appointed as his legal guardian; or

(b) where  the  data  subject  is  physically  or  mentally
unfit, by a person who has been appointed as his
guardian or administrator by a Court; or

(c) by a person duly authorized in writing by the data
subject to make a request under this Part except in
the cases referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b); or

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

11

(d)

an heir to exercise a deceased data subject’s rights
within a period of ten years from the date of demise
of such data subject,

in the manner prescribed by regulations.

(6) A request made by a data subject under sections 13,
14, 15 or 16 may be accompanied by such fees, as may be
prescribed by regulations made under this Act.

(7)  Where  a  fee  is  charged  under  subsection  (6),  the
controller shall inform the data subject the details of such
fees and reasons for imposing same.

18.

(1) Subject to section 19, every data subject shall
have the right to request a controller to review a decision of
such controller based solely on automated processing, which
has created or which is likely to create an irreversible and
continuous  impact  on  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  the  data
subject under any written law.

Automated
individual
decision  making

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply where
a  decision  of  a  controller,  based  on  automated  processing
is–

(a)

(b)

authorized by any written law, which a controller is
subject  to;

authorized  in  a  manner  determined  by  the
Authority;

(c) based on the consent of the data subject; or

(d) necessary  for  entering  into  or  performance  of  a
contract between the data subject and the controller,

and  the  controller  shall  comply  with  such  measures  and
applicable criteria as may be specified by the Authority by
rules made in that behalf to safeguard the rights and freedoms
of the data subject:

Right  of  appeal
of  the  data
subjects  to  the
Authority  and
the  process  of
determination  of
such  appeal

12

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

Provided however, the requirement under paragraph (d)

shall not apply to special categories of personal data.

19.

(1) Where a controller–

(a) has not refrained from further processing of

personal data under section 14; or

(b) has  refused  to  rectify  or  complete  personal

data under section 15; or

(c) has  refused  to  erase  personal  data  under

section 16; or

(d) has  refused  the  request  of  the  data  subject

under section 17(2); or

(e) has refused the request to review a decision
based solely on automated processing under
section 18(1),

the  data  subject  may,  appeal  against  such  decision  in  the
form,  manner  and  within  such  period  of  time  as  may  be
prescribed.

(2) The Authority may determine whether the –

(a) decision of the controller not to refrain from
further  processing  of  personal  data  under
section 14 was lawful;

(b) decision of the controller to refuse to rectify
or  complete  personal  data  under  section  15
was lawful;

(c)  decision of the controller to refuse the erasure
of personal data under section 16 was lawful;

(d)  refusal under section 17(2) by the controller

was lawful;

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

13

(e) refusal to review a decision based solely on
automated  processing  under  section  18(1)
was lawful.

(3)  After  concluding  the  necessary  investigations,  the
Authority  shall  determine,  within  such  period  as  may  be
prescribed, whether the appeal is allowed or disallowed and
the Authority shall inform the data subject and the controller
the determination with reasons thereof.

(4)  Where  the  Authority  allows  the  appeal  under
subsection (2), the controller shall take steps to give effect
to the decision of the Authority, within such period as may
be  determined  by  the  Authority,  and  the  controller  shall
inform the data subject and the Authority, the steps taken to
give effect to its decision.

(5)  Any  data  subject  or  controller  aggrieved  by  the
decision of the Authority, may prefer an appeal to the Court
of Appeal not later than thirty days from the date of such
decision.

PART III

CONTROLLERS AND PROCESSORS

20.

(1) Every controller and processor shall designate
or appoint a Data Protection Officer, to ensure compliance
with  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  in  the  following
circumstances:–

Designation  or
appointment  of
the  Data
Protection
Officer

(a) where the processing is carried out by a ministry,
government  department  or  public  corporation,
except for judiciary acting in their judicial capacity;
or

14

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

(b) where the core activities of processing carried out
by  the  controller  or  processor  consist  of  the
following:–

(i) operations  which,  by  virtue  of  their  nature,
their scope or their purposes, require regular
and  systematic  monitoring  of  data  subjects
on  a  scale  and  magnitude  as  may  be
prescribed; or

(ii) processing of special categories of personal
data  on  a  scale  and  magnitude  as  may  be
prescribed; or

(iii) processing  which  results  in  a  risk  of  harm
affecting  the  rights  of  the  data  subjects
protected under this Act based on the nature
of processing and its impact on data subjects.

(2)  A  Data  Protection  Officer  shall  possess  relevant
academic  and  professional  qualifications  as  may  be
prescribed  which  may  include  academic  background,
knowledge  and  technical  skills  in  matters  relating  to  data
protection  having  competency  and  capacity  to  implement
strategies  and  mechanisms  to  respond  to  inquiries  and
incidents related to processing of personal data.

(3)  Where  the  controller  is  a  group  of  entities,  such
controller may appoint a single Data Protection Officer who
is easily accessible by each entity. Where a controller or a
processor  is  a  Public  Authority,  a  single  Data  Protection
Officer may be designated for several such public authorities,
taking into account their organizational structures.

(4)  A  controller  or  processor  shall  publish  the  contact
details of the Data Protection Officer and communicate such
details to the Authority.

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

15

(5) The responsibility of the Data Protection Officer shall

be to–

(a)

(b)

(c)

advise  the  controller  or  processor  and  their
employees  on  data  processing  requirements
provided under this Act or any other written law;

ensure on behalf of the controller or processor that
the provisions of this Act are complied with;

facilitate capacity building of staff involved in data
processing  operations;

(d) provide advice on personal data protection impact

assessments; and

(e)

co-operate  and  comply  with  all  directives  and
instructions  issued  by  the  Authority  on  matters
relating to data protection.

21.

(1)  Where  processing  is  to  be  carried  out  by  a

processor on behalf of a controller, the controller shall–

Additional
obligations  of  a
controller

(a) use  only  processors  who  ensure  the  provision  of
appropriate technical and organizational measures
to give effect to the provisions of this Act and ensure
the protection of rights of the data subjects under
this Act; and

(b)

ensure that such processor is bound by a contract or
provisions  of  any  written  law  which  sets  out  the
subject-matter and duration of the processing, the
nature and purpose of the processing, the type of
personal  data  and  categories  of  the  data  subjects
and the obligations of the controller.

(2) Where two or more controllers jointly determine the
purposes and means of processing, such controllers shall be
referred  to  as  “joint  controllers”  who  shall  be  jointly
responsible for discharging the obligations stipulated under
this Act.

16

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

Additional
obligations  of
the  processors

22.

(1) Where  a  processor  is  engaged  in  processing

activities on behalf of the controller, the processor shall–

(a)

(b)

(c)

ensure that processing activities are carried out only
on the written instructions of the controller;

ensure that its personnel are bound by contractual
obligations  on  confidentiality  and  secrecy  by  the
implementation  of  appropriate  technical  and
organizational measures;

facilitate  the  controller  to  carry  out  compliance
audits,  including  inspections  upon  the  written
request  of  the  controller,  taking  into  account  the
nature of processing and the information available
to the processor; and

(d) upon the written instructions of the controller, erase
existing  copies  of  personal  data  or  return  all
personal data to the controller after the completion
of the provisions of services relating to processing.

(2) Where a processor fails to comply with the provisions
of paragraph (a) of subsection (1) or determines the purposes
and means of processing by itself, such processor shall, for
the  purposes  of  this  Act  be  deemed  to  be  a  controller,  in
respect of such processing.

(3)  Where  a  processor  engages  another  processor
(hereinafter referred to as the “sub processor”) for carrying
out  specific  processing  activities,  the  provisions  of  this
section shall apply to and in relation to such sub processor.

(4) Where a sub processor fails to fulfil its obligations
under  subsection  (3),  the  processor  shall  be  liable  to  the
controller  for  the  performance  or  carrying  out  of  the
obligations of such sub processor.

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

17

(5) For the purposes of this section “personnel” means
any employee, consultant, agent, affiliate or any person who
is contracted by the processor to process personal data.

23.

(1) In the event of a personal data breach, a controller
shall  notify  the  Authority,  regarding  such  personal  data
breach in such  form, manner and within such period of time
as may be determined by rules made under this Act.

Personal  Data
breach
notifications

(2) The Authority shall provide for–

(a) the  circumstances  where  the  Authority  shall

be notified of such data breach;

(b) the  circumstances  where  the  affected  data

subject shall be notified; and

(c) the  form,  and  manner  of  making  such
notification,  and  information  which  shall  be
provided  in  such  notification  relating  to  the
data breach,

by way of rules made under this Act.

24.

(1)  Where  a  Controller  intends  to  carry  out  any

processing  which  involves–

Personal  data
protection
impact
assessments

(a)

(b)

(c)

a systematic and extensive evaluation of personal
data or special categories of personal data including
profiling;

a systematic monitoring of publicly accessible areas
or telecommunication networks; or

a processing activity as may be determined by way
of  rules  taking  into  consideration  the  scope  and
associated risks of that processing,

18

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

such controller shall, prior to such processing, carry out a
personal  data  protection  impact  assessment  in  a  form  and
manner as may be prescribed, to ascertain the impact of the
intended  processing  on  the  obligations  imposed  on  the
controller  under  Part  I  of  this  Act  and  the  rights  of  data
subjects under Part II of this Act.

(2) The personal data protection impact assessment shall
contain  such  information  and  particulars  including  any
measures and safeguards taken by the controller to mitigate
any risk of harm caused to the data subject by the processing
referred to in subsection (1).

(3) The controller shall seek the assistance of the Data
Protection Officer, where designated, when carrying out a
personal  data  protection  impact  assessment  under
subsection (1).

(4)  The  controller  shall  conduct  a  fresh  personal  data
protection impact assessment in accordance with this section
whenever  there  is  any  change  in  the  methodology,
technology or process adopted in the processing for which a
personal data protection impact assessment has already been
carried out.

(5)  The  controller  shall  submit  to  the  Authority,  the
personal data protection impact assessment required under
this section and, on written request made by the Authority,
provide any other information, for the purpose of making an
assessment on the compliance of the processing and in respect
of any risks of harm associated with the protection of personal
data  of  the  data  subject  and  of  the  related  safeguards
recommended by the Authority.

Measures  to
mitigate  risks  of
harm  and  the
requirement  for
prior
consultation

25.

(1)  Where  a  personal  data  protection  impact
assessment  carried  out  under  section  24  indicates  that  the
processing is likely to result in a risk of harm to the rights of
the data subjects guaranteed under this Act or any written
law, a controller shall take such measures to mitigate such
risk of harm, prior to any processing of personal data.

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

19

(2)  Where  a  Controller,  despite  having  taken  measures
under  subsection  (1),  is  not  able  to  mitigate  such  risks  of
harm  to  the  data  subject,  such  controller  may  consult  the
Authority prior to such processing.

(3)  Upon  such  consultation,  the  Authority  may  issue
written instructions to the controller requiring him to take
additional measures to mitigate any risk of harm to the data
subject or to cease such processing.

(4)  Where  the  controller  consults  the  Authority  under
subsection  (2),  the  controller  shall  provide  additional
information as may be requested by the Authority.

(5)  Where  the  controller  fails  to  comply  with  the
instructions of the Authority without any reasonable cause,
such controller shall contravene the provisions of this Act.

(6) For the avoidance of doubt it is declared that when
processing of personal data referred to in items (b), (f), (g)
and (h) of Schedule II, such processing shall be considered
to have provided such measures and appropriate safeguards
to  protect  the  rights  of  the  data  subjects  required  under
Schedule II.

(7) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, whenever the controller engages in processing
of personal data referred to in section 24(1) and where such
processing is carried out by a controller in relation to national
security, public order and public health, the controller shall
consult the Authority.

26.

(1) Where a public authority process personal data
as  a  controller  or  processor,  such  personal  data  shall  be
processed only in Sri Lanka and shall not be processed in a
third  country,  unless  the  Authority  in  consultation  with,
that controller or processor as the case may be and the relevant
regulatory  or  statutory  body,  classifies  the  categories  of

Cross-border
data  flow

20

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

personal data which may be permitted to be processed in a
third  country,  prescribed  by  the  Minister    pursuant  to  an
adequacy decision made under subsection (2).

(2) (a) For the purpose of making an “adequacy decision”,
the Minister shall, in consultation with the Authority take
into consideration the relevant written law and enforcement
mechanisms relating to the protection of personal data in a
third country and the application of the provisions of   Part
I, Part II and sections 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25 of Part III of
this  Act,  and  such  other  prescribed  criteria  relating  to  the
processing of personal data, in a third  country for the purpose
of cross border data flow.

(b) Any adequacy decision made by the Minister under

this subsection shall–

(i) be  subject  to  periodic  monitoring  of  the
developments  in  a  third  country  that  may  affect
such decisions and the Minister may review such
decision  at least every two years; and

(ii)

remain  in  force  until  amended  or  revoked  by  the
Minister in consultation with the authority.

(3) A controller or processor other than a public authority

may process personal data–

(a)

(b)

in  a  third  country  prescribed  pursuant  to  an
adequacy decision; or

in a country, not being a third country prescribed
pursuant to an adequacy decision, only where such
controller or processor as the case may be, ensures
compliance with the respective obligations imposed
under Part I, Part II and sections 20, 21, 22, 23, 24
and 25 of Part III of this Act.

(4)  For  the  purpose  of  ensuring  compliance  under
paragraph  (b)  of  subsection  (3),  a  controller  or  processor

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

21

shall  adopt  such  instruments  as  may  be  specified  by  the
Authority to ensure binding and enforceable commitments
of  the  recipient  in  the  third  country  to  ensure  appropriate
safeguards  to  the  rights  of  the  data  subjects  and  remedies
protected by this Act.

(5) In the absence of any adequacy decision pursuant to
subsection  (2)  or  appropriate  safeguards  pursuant  to
subsecion (4), a controller or processor other than a public
authority may process personal data outside Sri Lanka if–

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

the  data  subject  has  explicitly  consented  to  the
proposed  processing  of  personal  data  outside  Sri
Lanka, after having been informed of the possible
risks of such processing for the data subject due to
the  absence  of  an  adequacy  decision  and
appropriate safeguards; or

the transfer is necessary for the performance of a
contract between the data subject and the controller
or  the  implementation  of  any  pre  contractual
measures taken by the controller at the request of
the data subject; or

the  transfer  is  necessary  for  the  establishment,
exercise or defence of legal claims relating to the
data subject; or

the transfer is necessary for reasons of public interest
as defined in item (g) of Schedule I of this Act; or

the transfer is necessary to respond to an emergency
that threatens the life, health, or safety of the data
subject or another person and where the data subject
or  his  legal  guardian  is  physically  or  legally
incapable of giving consent; or

(f)

such  processing  is  permitted  under  any  other
conditions as may be prescribed under this Act.

22

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

PART IV

USE OF PERSONAL DATA TO DISSEMINATE
SOLICITED MESSAGES

Solicited
messages  to  data
subjects  by
controllers

27.

(1) Subject to section 14, a controller may use postal
services,  telecommunication  services,  electronic  means  or
any other similar means for the purposes of disseminating
messages only if a data subject has given consent to receive
such  messages  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “solicited
messages”).

(2)  For  the  purpose  of  subsection  (1),  consent  shall  be
obtained by a controller in accordance with the conditions
of Schedule III of this Act.

(3) When obtaining a consent under subsection (1), the
controller shall, at the time of collecting contact information
and each time where a message is sent, provide to the data
subject  details  on  how  to  opt-out  of  receiving  solicited
messages free of charge.

(4)  A  controller  using  postal,  electronic,
telecommunication or any other similar means to disseminate
any solicited message, shall inform the data subjects, to whom
such  messages  are  intended,  of  the  nature  of  the  message
and the identity of the controller or third party on behalf of
whom the message is disseminated by the controller.

(5) The Authority may, in consultation with the relevant
regulatory or statutory body, determine by way of rules made
under this Act, any code or prefix that controllers shall adopt
in order to identify different categories of solicited messages.

(6) For the purpose of this section, a “message” includes
any  written,  electronic,  oral,  pictorial,  or  video  message,
that is intended to promote–

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

23

(a) goods or services of a controller or any third party;

or

(b)

any  person,  entity  or  organisation  including  the
controller,

using  postal,  electronic  or  telecommunication  services  or
any other similar methods, including the use of automated
calling and communication systems with or without human
intervention, other than any internet based advertisements
to which a data subject has consented to obtain a service,
free of charge from the controller.

PART V

DATA PROTECTION AUTHORITY

28.

(1)  There  shall  be  established  an  authority  which
shall be called the Data Protection Authority of Sri Lanka
(in this Act referred to as the “Authority”) for the purposes of
this Act.

Establishment  of
the  data
Protection
Authority

(2)  The  Authority  shall,  by  the  name  assigned  to  it  by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.

29.

(1) The administration, management and control of
the  affairs  of  the  Authority  shall  be  vested  in  a  Board  of
Directors (in this Act referred to as the “Board”).

Constitution  of
the  Board  of
Directors

(2) The Board shall, for the purpose of administering the
affairs of the Authority, exercise, perform and discharge the
powers,  duties  and  functions  conferred  on,  assigned  to  or
imposed on, the Authority by this Act.

(3) The Board shall consist of not less than five members
and not more than seven members appointed by the President
from among persons who have reached eminence and proven

24

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

professional expertise in the fields of engineering, medicine,
banking and finance, telecommunications, Law and persons
who  have  experience  in  different  sectors  such  as  public
utilities,  business  process  outsourcing  (BPO),  logistics,
Insurance, banking and financial sectors, of whom at least
two members shall have prior experience in the public sector
entities.

(4) The persons appointed to the Board shall also have
experience  and  knowledge  in  regulatory  matters,  privacy
and data protection, information security, data science, data
analytics,  economics,  finance,  information  technology  or
related fields.

(5) The provisions of Schedule VI to this Act, shall have
effect  in  relation  to  the  disqualifications  and  grounds  for
removal, resignation, leave or absence, and term of office of
members  of  the  Board  and  meetings,  and  seal  of  the
Authority.

Chairperson  of
the  Board

30. (1) The President shall appoint one of the members
who has demonstrated effective leadership qualities in public
or private sector entities to be the Chairperson of the Board.

(2) The Chairperson may resign from his office by letter
addressed  to  the  President  and  such  resignation  shall  be
effective  from  the  date  on  which  it  is  accepted  by  the
President.

(3) The  President  may,  for  reasons  assigned  therefor
remove the Chairperson from the office of the Chairperson.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),
the term of office of the Chairperson shall be the period of
his membership of the Board.

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

25

(5) Where  the  Chairperson  is  temporarily  unable  to
exercice,  perform  and  discharge  the  powers,  duties  and
functions  of  his  office  due  to  ill  health,  other  infirmity,
absence  from  Sri  Lanka  or  any  other  cause,  the  President
may oppoint any other member to act as the Chairperson in
addition to his normal duties as a member.

31. The objects of the Authority shall be–

Objects  of  the
Authority

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

to  regulate  the  processing  of  personal  data  in
accordance with the provisions of this Act;

to safeguard the privacy of the data subjects from
any adverse impact arising from the digitalization
of  the  procedures  and  services  in  the  public  and
private sector;

to provide for mechanisms to ensure the protection
of personal data of data subjects engaged in digital
transactions  and  communications;

to  ensure  the  regulatory  compliance  with  the
provisions of this Act to facilitate for the growth
and  innovation  in  digital  economy.

32. The Authority may exercise the following powers,
for  the  purpose  of  performing  duties  and  discharging
functions under this Act:–

Powers  of  the
Authority

(a)

to carry out whether directly or through any officer,
agent,  entity  or  institutions  authorized  in  that
behalf by the Authority, all such matters as may be
necessary for the implementation of the provisions
of this Act;

26

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

to take all such steps to ensure that controllers and
processors carry out their duties and obligations in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and
inspect  any  information  held  by  a  controller  or  a
processor in order to ensure the performance of his
duties  and  obligations;

to direct a controller or a processor to take steps to
comply with the provisions of this Act, including
the  requirement  to  publish  terms  and  conditions
subject to which and the manner in which processing
activities are carried out;

to direct a controller or any relevant data protection
officer to reimburse fees charged from a data subject
for failure to provide the required information in a
timely manner;

to  conduct  inquiries,  receive  complaints,  require
any person to appear before it, make directives and
impose fines in accordance with the provisions of
this Act;

to examine a person under oath or affirmation and
require such person where necessary to produce any
information relating to the processing of functions
of a controller or processor in the manner prescribed,
for the purpose of discharging the functions of this
Act;

to  enter  into  the  premises  of  any  controller  or
processor and inspect or seize records and carry out
investigations where the Authority has reasonable
grounds  to  believe  that  processing  poses  an
imminent risk to the rights of the data subjects;

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

27

(h)

to carry out periodical evaluations into the manner
in which and procedures used for any processing
activities carried out by a controller or processor,
including  the  data  protection  management
programme;

(i)

to  appoint  advisory  committees  consisting  of
members  whose  qualifications,  experience  and
powers and duties shall be as prescibed;

(j)

to recognize certification and certifying bodies in
relation to personal data protection;

(k)

(l)

to  enter  into  agreements  with  or  engage  in  any
activity, either alone or in conjunction with other
apex  government  or  regulatory  institutions  or
international agencies or organizations, responsible
for  data  protection  outside  Sri  Lanka  for  the
purposes of this Act;

to acquire, take and hold any property movable or
immovable which may become vested in it or by
virtue  of  any  purchase,  grants,  gifts  or  otherwise
and to sell, mortgage, lease, grant, convey, device,
assign, exchange or dispose of, any such movable
or immovable property;

(m)

to  employ  such  officers  and  staff  including
consultants and advisors subject to such terms and
conditions  of  employment  to  serve  as  experts  as
the  Authority  may  consider  appropriate  for  the
Authority to discharge its functions;

28

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

(n) with the concurrence of the Minister assigned the
subject of Finance, to pay such remuneration and
other benefits and to establish provident funds or
pension  schemes  as  may  be  determined  by  the
Authority for the benefit of its staff and officers,
consultants  or  advisors  with  whom  a  contract  of
employment  or  service  is  entered  into  by  the
Authority as the case may be;

(o)

 to invest its funds in such manner as the Authority
may deem necessary;

(p)

to open, operate and close bank accounts;

(q)

to establish standards in relation to data protection
and data storage, data processing, obtaining consent
and such other matters as may be necessary for the
proper implementation of the provisions of this Act;

(r)

to receive grants, gifts or donations whether from
local or foreign sources:

Provided  however,  the  Authority  shall  obtain
prior written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister to whom
the subject of Finance is assigned, in respect of all
foreign grants, gifts or donations;

to make rules and issue guidelines and directives
in respect of the matters for which rules, guidelines
and  directives  are  required  to  be  made  or  issued
under this Act; and

to  do  any  other  acts  as  may  be  necessary  or
conducive  to  the  attainment  of  the  objects  of  the
Authority under this Act.

(s)

(t)

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

29

33. For  the  purpose  of  carrying  out  its  objects,  the
Authority  shall,  perform  and  discharge  all  or  any  of  the
following duties and functions:–

Duties  and
functions  of  the
Authority

(a) direct controllers to comply with the provisions of
sections  11  and  13  in  accordance  with  the
information set out in Schedule V hereto;

(b) monitor and examine all data processing operations
to  ensure  the  due  compliance  by  controllers  or
processors,  of  the  obligations  imposed  on  such
controllers or processors under this Act, either of
its own motion or at the request of a data subject;

(c)

(d)

issue  directives  to  any  specific  controller  or
processor  regarding  any  processing  activity
performed by such controller or processor;

facilitate  or  undertake  training,  based  on
international  best  practices,  for  controllers  and
processors to ensure the effective implementation
of the provisions of this Act;

(e)

issue directives to ensure effective implementation
of data protection management programmes by the
controllers;

(f) promote  transparency  and  self-regulation  among

controllers and processors;

(g)

(h)

(i)

ensure  domestic  compliance  of  data  protection
obligations  under  international  conventions;

recommend  to  the  Government  on  all  matters
relating to data protection;

represent  the  Government  internationally  on
matters relating to data protection with the approval
of the Minister;

30

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

(j) promote studies and educational activities relating
to  data  protection,  including  organising  and
conducting  seminars,  workshops  and  symposia
relating thereto, and supporting other organisations
conducting  such  activities;

(k) manage  technical  co-operation  and  exchange  in
the area of data protection with other organisations,
including  foreign  data  protection  authorities  and
international or inter-governmental organisations,
on its own behalf or on behalf of the government;

(l)

carry  out  functions  conferred  on  the  Authority
under any other written law;

(m)

 undertake research into the use and impact of new
technologies on processing of personal data;

(n) make rules governing the sharing of personal data
between  controllers  which  are  public  authorities,
in accordance with the provisions of this Act, where
such data can be shared between the controllers via
a secure interoperability platform, including setting
in place criteria mandating the sharing of personal
data  between  controllers  thereby  restricting  the
duplication of collection and storage of data already
available with another controller;

(o)

appoint advisory committees to formulate sectoral
guidelines, rules and to identify criteria and define
categories of processing by controllers or processors
requiring  a  licence  for  the  purpose  of  regulating
identity management and related services provided
to data subjects under any written law;

(p) make rules in relation to the use of special categories
of  personal  data,  the  use  of  personal  data  for  the
dissemination of solicited messages, in complience
with section 27, the use of personal data for profiling
of  individuals,  the  use  of  personal  data  for
automated  decision  making;  and

Authority  may
issue  licences

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

31

(q) perform such other acts not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, as
are necessary for the promotion of the objects of
the Authority under this Act.

34.

(1) The Authority may, issue licences to controllers
or  processors  requiring  a  licence  based  on  the
recommendations of the advisory committee, for the purpose
of  regulating  identity  management  and  related  services
provided to data subjects under any written law.

(2) The recommendations of the advisory committee shall
identify  criteria  and  define  categories  of  processing  by
controllers or processors requiring a licence.

(3) The categories, criteria, terms and conditions, form
and  duration,  procedure  for  application,  renewal,
suspension,  cancellation,  relating  to  such  licences,  appeal
against  the  refusal,  suspension  or  cancallation  of  licence
and fees to be charged may be prescribed.

(4)  The  Authority  may,  review  and  monitor  the
compliance of such controllers or processors with applicable
terms and conditions of such licences.

35.

(1) Where on receipt of a complaint or otherwise,
the Authority has reason to believe, that any controller or
processor–

Directives  made
by  the  Authority

(a)

is  engaged  in,  or  is  about  to  engage  in  any
processing activity in contravention of this Act; or

(b) has contravened or failed to comply with or is likely
to contravene or, fails to comply with the provisions
of this Act or any rule under paragraph (d), (e) or (f)
of  section  52,  any  regulation,  guideline  or  Order
made under this Act or under any other written law
relating to the processing of personal data,

the Authority may, conduct an inquiry in accordance with
the procedure as may be prescribed.

32

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

(2) The Authority may, after giving an opportunity to the
controller  or  processor  to  be  heard  at  any  inquiry  under
subsection (1), issue a directive to the controller or processor
requiring such controller or processor within such time as
may be prescribed–

(a)

(b)

(c)

to  cease  and  refrain  from  engaging  in,  the  act,
omission or course of conduct related to processing;
or

to  perform  such  acts  as  in  the  opinion  of  the
Authority are necessary to rectify the situation; or

to  make  a  payment  of  such  sum  of  money  as
compensation  as  determined  by  the  Authority  to
an aggrieved person who has suffered harm, loss or
damage  as  a  result  of  any  contravention  by  a
controller or processor under subsection (1).

(3) Every directive issued to such controller or processor
under this section shall be in writing and be communicated
to  such  controller  or  processor  to  whom  it  is  directed  by
registered post, electronic communication or other similar
means determined by the Authority, and such directive shall
be binding on such controller or processor, who shall comply
with such directive from the date of such communication.

PART VI

DIRECTOR-GENERAL AND THE STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY

Appointment  of
the  Director-
General

36.

(1) The Board shall appoint a Director-General of
the Authority who have achieved eminence and the proven
professional  expertise  in  providing  leadership  to  public
sector or private sector.

(2)  The  Director-General  shall  be  the  chief  executive
officer of the Authority and the conditions of employment
including  remuneration  of  the  Director-General  shall  be
determined by the Board by way of rules.

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

33

(3)  The  Board  shall  not  appoint  any  person  as  the

Director-General of the Authority, if such person-

(a) has  been  previously  found  guilty  of  serious
misconduct by a court or tribunal or has been subject
to a disciplinary action by a regulatory body;

(b) has been previously dismissed from office; or

(c) has committed a breach of the provisions of this Act,
or regulations, rules or  directives made thereunder.

(4)  The  Director-General  shall,  subject  to  the  general
direction  and  control  of  the  Board,  be  charged  with  the
direction of the affairs and transactions of the Authority, the
exercise,  performance  and  discharge  of  its  powers,  duties
and  functions,  and  the  administration  and  control  of  the
officers and employees of the Authority.

(5) The Board may remove the Director-General appointed
under subsection (1), from office having regard to any one
of the following reasons:–

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

the likelihood of any confict of interests in carrying
out his duties or functions for the Authority;

that person becomes of unsound mind or incapable
of carrying out his duties or functions;

that  person  is  guilty  of  serious  misconduct  in
relation to his duties or functions; or

that person is involved in any activity which may
interfere with his independence in discharging his
duties or functions or not complied with the general
directions of the Board:

Provided that, the Board shall grant an opportunity to the

Director-General of being heard prior to such removal.

Staff  of  the
Authority

34

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

37.

(1) Nothwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in
any  other  written  law,  the  Authority  may  create  cadre
positions and employ officers and employees as it considers
necessary  for  the  efficient  discharge  of  its  functions  and
may  fix  their  salaries  and  wages  or  other  remuneration,
benefits and pensions of such officers and employees for the
purposes of carrying out its duties and functions under the
provisions of this Act.

(2) The Authority shall promote and sponsor the training
of  technical  personnel  on  the  subjects  of  information
security,  data  science,  data  analytics,  information
technology, finance, law and other related subjects and for
this purpose, the Authority shall be authorised to defray the
costs  of  study,  in  Sri  Lanka  or  abroad  of  the  officers  and
employees  of    the  Authority  who  are  of  proven  merit  as
determined by the Authority.

(3) The Authority shall prepare a code of conduct which
shall  be  applicable  to  the  officers  and  employees  of  the
Authority.

(4) The Authority may revise such code of conduct by

modifying, rescinding or amending from time to time.

(5)  The  Authority  shall  not  appoint  any  person  to  the

staff of the Authority where such person–

(a) has  been  previously  found  guilty  of  serious
misconduct by a court or tribunal or has been subject
to a disciplinary action by a regulatory body;

(b) has been previously dismissed from office; or

(c) has  committed  a  breach  of  the  provisions  of  this
Act  or  regulations,  rules  or  directives  made
thereunder.

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

35

(6)  At  the    request  of  the  Authority  any  officer  in  the
public service may, with the consent of  the officer and the
Public Service Commission established by the Constitution
be temporarily appointed to the Authority for such period as
may be determined by the Authority or with like consent, be
permanently appointed to such staff.

(7) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Authority,  the  provisions  of
subsection  (2)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.

(8) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Authority,  the  provisions  of
subsection  (3)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.

(9)  Where  the  Authority  employs  any  person  who  has
agreed  to  serve  the  Government  for  a  specified  period,
any  period  of  service  to  the  Authority  by  that  person
shall  be  regarded  as  service  to  the  Government  for  the
purpose  of  discharging  the  obligations  of  such
agreement.

(10) The Authority may with the consent of such officer
or employee propose secondment of its officers or employees
to  other  state  institutions  or  regulatory  authorities  in  Sri
Lanka or abroad for a period determined by the Board on an
assignment  agreed  upon  between  such  institution  and  the
Authority. The period of secondment shall be deemed to be
considered as service to the Authority.

Imposition  of
penalties

36

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

PART VII

PENALTIES

38.

(1) Where a controller or processor fails to comply
with a directive issued under the provisions of section 35,
the Authority shall after taking into consideration the impact
on  data  subjects,  the  nature  and  extent  of  relevant  non-
compliances and the matters referred to in section 39 of this
Act, by notice require such controller or processor to pay a
penalty, which shall not exceed a sum of rupees ten million
for each non-compliance.

(2) Where a controller or processor has been subjected to
a  penalty  on  a  previous  occasion,  subsequently  fails  to
conform to a directive on any further occasion such person
shall in addition to the penalty which may be imposed on
him  under  subsection  (1)  be  liable  to  the  payment  of  an
additional penalty consisting of twice the amount imposed
as  a  penalty  on  the  second  and  for  each  subsequent  non-
compliance.

(3) The Authority shall be responsible for the collection
of a penalty imposed under this section and the money so
collected  shall  be  credited  to  the  Consolidated  Fund  after
deducting such sum of money collected as compensation if
any payable to the aggrieved person affected by reason of
the  non-compliance  of  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (c)  of
subsection (2) of section 35.

(4) If a controller or processor becomes liable to a penalty
in terms of subsection (1) or (2) fails to pay such penalty,
within such period as may be specified in such notice, the
Authority may make an exparte application to the Magistrate
Court of Colombo for an order requiring the payment of the
penalty  recovered  in  a  like  manner  as  a  fine  imposed  by
such court notwithstanding such sum may exceed the amount
of fine which that court may, in the exercise of its ordinary
jurisdiction  impose.

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

37

 (5) The imposition of a penalty under this section shall
not  preclude  a  relevant  regulatory  or  statutory  body  from
taking  any  other  regulatory  measures  including,  but  not
limited to, the suspension of such  controller or processor
from  carrying  on  of  a  business  or  profession  or  the
cancellation of a licence or authority granted for the carrying
on of a business or profession, as may be permitted in terms
of any applicable written law or rules for the regulation or
supervision of such controller or processor.

(6) Where a penalty is imposed under this section on a

body of persons, then–

(a)

(b)

(c)

if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
person  who  at  the  time  of  non-compliance  under
subsection  (1)  was  a  director,  and  other  officer
responsible  with  management  and  control  of  that
body  corporate;

if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of
that firm; or

if that body is not a body corporate, every person
who at the time of non-compliance of requirements
under subsection (1) was the officer responsible with
management and control of that body,

shall be liable to pay such penalty, unless he proves that he
had  no  knowledge  of  the  failure  to  comply  with  the
requirement  under  subsection  (1)  or  that  he  exercised  all
due care and diligence to ensure the compliance therewith.

(7)  A  controller  or  processor  who  is  aggrieved  by  the
imposition of an administrative penalty under this section,
may  appeal  against  such  decision  to  the  Court  of  Appeal
within twenty-one working days, from the date of the notice
of  the  imposition  of  such  administrative  penalty  was
communicated to such person.

(8)  Until  rules  are  made  under  Article  136  of  the
Constitution  pertaining  to  appeals  under  this  section,  the

38

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

rules  made  under  that  Article  pertaining  to  an  application
by  way  of  revision  to  the  Court  of  Appeal,  shall  apply  in
respect of every appeal made under subsection (7) of this
section.

(9) Any controller or processor who prefer an appeal to
the Court of Appeal under subsection (7), shall, deposit in
cash as a security such sum of money equal to the penalty
imposed under subsections (1) or (2) before the registrar of
the Court of Appeal.

(10) Where an appeal is preferred under subsection (7),
the burden of proof shall be on the controller or the processor
as the case may be, to prove that he has acted in compliance
with the provisions of this Act.

Matters  to
consider  when
imposing  a
Penalty

39.

In  making  a  determination  to  impose  an
administrative  penalty,  including  the  amount  as  provided
in  subsection  (1)  of  section  38,  the  Authority  shall  have
regard to the following matters:–

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

the  nature,  gravity  and  duration  of  the
contravention taking into account the nature, scope
or purpose of the processing concerned as well as
the number of data subjects affected and the level
of damage suffered by them;

any action taken by the controller or processor to
mitigate the damage suffered by data subjects;

the effectiveness of the data protection management
programme  required  from  the  controller  under
section  12;

the  degree  of  co-operation  with  the  Authority,  in
order to remedy the contravention and mitigate the
possible adverse effects of such contravention;

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

39

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

the  categories  of  personal  data  affected  by  any
contravention;

the manner in which a contravention became known
to the Authority, in particular whether, and if so to
what extent, the controller or processor notified the
contravention  to  the  Authority;

the previous non - compliances by such controller
or processor under this Act;

any  other  aggravating  or  mitigating  factors
applicable to the circumstances of the case, such as
financial  benefits  gained,  or  losses  avoided,
directly or indirectly, arising out of or in relation to
the  contravention  of  this  Act  by  a  controller  or
processor as the case may be.

40. Any  exemption,  restriction  or  derogation  to  the
provisions  of  this  Act  shall  not  be  allowed  except  where
such an exemption, restriction or derogation is provided for
in any law and respects the essence of the fundamental rights
and freedoms and constitute a necessary and proportionate
measure in a democratic society for–

Exemptions,
restrictions  or
derogations

(a)

the protection of national security, defense, public
safety,  public  health,  economic  and  financial
systems stability of the Republic of Sri Lanka;

(b)

the impartiality and independence of the judiciary;

(c)

the  prevention,  investigation  and  prosecution  of
criminal offences;

(d)

the execution of criminal penalties; and

(e)

the  protection  of  the  rights  and  fundamental
freedoms  of  persons,  particularly  the  freedom  of
expression and the right to information.

40

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

PART VIII

FUND OF THE AUTHORITY

Fund  of  the
Authority

41.

(1)  The  Authority  shall  have  its  own  fund

(hereinafter referred to as the “Fund”).

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund–

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

all  such  sums  of  money  as  may  be  voted  by
Parliament for the use of the Authority ; and

all such sums of money as may be received by the
Authority  in  the  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under
this Act; and

all such sums of money as may be paid as fees under
the provisions of this Act; and

all such sums of money as may be received by the
Authority by way of gifts,  grants or donations from
the  Consolidated  Fund,  the  Government,  or  a
foreign  Government,  State  Agencies  and  from
multilateral and bilateral agencies whether within
or outside Sri Lanka.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums as
are required to defray expenditure incurred by the Authority
in  the  exercise,  performance  and  discharge  of  its  powers,
duties and functions under this Act or under any other written
law and all such sums as are required to be paid out of the
Fund.

(4) Monies belonging to the Fund of the Authority may
be  invested  by  the  Authority  in  such  manner  as  may  be
detemined by the Board.

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

41

42.

(1) The financial year of the Authority shall be the

calendar year.

Financial  year
and  Audit  of
Accounts

(2)  The  provisions  of  Article  154  of  the  Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Authority.

Power  to  borrow

PART IX

MISCELLANEOUS

43. The Authority may with the consent of the Minister
given in concurrence with the Minister assigned the subject
of  Finance  borrow  temporarily  by  way  of  overdraft  or
otherwise, such sums of money as the Authority may require
for defraying any expenditure incurred by it in the exercise,
performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions
under this Act:

Provided that, the aggregate of the amounts outstanding
in  respect  of  any  loans  raised  by  the  Authority  under  this
section, shall not exceed such sum as may be determined by
the Minister in consultation with the Minister assigned the
subject of Finance.

44.

(1) The Board may, subject to such conditions as
may be specified in writing, delegate to the Director-General
or any officer of the Authority, any of its powers, duties and
functions under this Act and the Director-General or such
officer  shall  exercise,  perform  and  discharge  such  power,
duty or function subject to any special or general directions
issued by the Board.

Delegation  of
powers,
duties  and
functions  of
the  Authority

(2)  Notwithstanding  any  delegation  made  under
subsection  (1),  the  Board  may  exercise,  perform  and
discharge any such power, duty or function so delegated.

Delegation  of
powers,  duties
and  functions  by
the  Director-
General

42

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

45.

(1) The Director-General may delegate any of his
powers, duties or functions under this Act, to any officer of
the Authority.

(2) An officer to whom any power, duty or function is
delegated under subsection (1), shall exercise, perform and
discharge  such  power,  duty  and  function  subject  to  such
directions as may be given by the Director-General.

(3)  The  Director-General  shall,  notwithstanding  any
delegation  made  under  subsection  (1),  have  the  right  to
exercise, perform and discharge any power, duty or function
so  delegated.

Expenses  to  be
paid  out  of  the
Fund  of  the
Authority

46.

(1) All expenses incurred by the Authority in any
suit or prosecution brought by or against it before any court,
shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority and only costs
paid  to  or  recovered  by  the  Authority  in  any  such  suit  or
prosecution, shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority.

(2)  Any  expense  incurred  by  a  member  of  the  Board,
Director-General, or any officer or other employees of the
Authority, in any suit or prosecution brought by or against
such person before any court in respect of any act which is
done or purported to be done by such person under this Act,
shall if the court holds that the act was done in good faith, be
paid out of the Fund of the Authority, unless such expenses
are recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

Review  of  the
performance  of
the  Authority

47. The  Minister  shall  from  time  to  time  review  the
performance of the Authority and require the Authority to
submit such reports relating to its affairs and activities as
may be required by the Minister.

Annual  Report

48.

(1)  The  Authority  shall  within  six  months  of  the
end of each financial year, submit to the Minister an annual

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

43

report of the activities carried out by the Authority during
that financial year, with such supporting documents as the
Minister may require from time to time for the evaluation of
the performance of the Authority.

(2)  The  Minister  shall,  lay  copies  of  the  report  and
documents submitted under subsection (1) before Parliament
within six months from the date of receipt of such report and
the  documents.

49. A liability whether civil or criminal, shall not be
attached  to  any  officer  of  the  Authority  or  to  any  officer
authorized  by  such  officer,  for  anything  which  is  done  in
good faith in the performance or exercise of any function or
power imposed or conferred on the Authority under this Act.

Protection  of
officers  of  the
Authority  from
suit  or
prosecution

50. All officers and employees of the Authority, shall
be deemed to be public servants within the meaning and for
the purposes of Penal Code (Chapter 19).

51. The Authority shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
institution  within  the  meaning  of  the  Bribery  Act,
(Chapter 26)  and  the  provisions  of  that  Act  shall  be
construed  accordingly.

All  officers  and
employees  of
the  Authority
deemed  to  be
public  servants
for  the  purposes
of  Penal  Code

Authority
deemed  to  be  a
scheduled
institution  for
the  purposes  of
Bribery  Act

52.

(1) The Authority shall make rules in respect of–

Rules

(a)

the  schemes  of  recruitments,  terms  of
appointment,  employment  and  dismissal  of
various  officers  and  employees  and  their
powers, functions including the powers and
functions  of  the  Director-General  and  the
payment of remuneration;

(b)

the  procedure  to  be  observed  at  the
summoning and holding of meetings of the
Authority;

44

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

(c)

the  management  of  the  affairs  of  the
Authority;

(d)

the form and manner of exercising rights of
data subjects under Part II;

(e) criteria  for  refusal  of  the  request  of  data

subjects under section 17.

(f) all  matters  for  which,  rules  are  required  or

authorized to be made under this Act.

(2)  The  Authority  shall  make  first  rules  under
subsection (1), within twenty-four months from the date of
coming into operation of the provisions of Part V of this Act.

(3)  The  Authority  shall,  prior  to  making  rules  under
paragraphs  (d),  (e)  or  (f)  of  subsection  (1),  hold  public
consultations for a period of not less than two weeks.

(4)  The  period  of  public  consultation  referred  to  in
subsection (3) may be extended for a further period as may
be specified by the Authority.

(5) A rule made under this section shall not have effect
until it is approved by the Minister and approved rules and
notification of such approval are published in the Gazette.

(6) Every rule made under paragraphs (d), (e) or (f) of
subsection (1), shall within three months after its publication
in  the  Gazette  be  brought  before  Parliament  for  approval
and any rule, which is not so approved, shall be deemed to
be rescinded with effect from the date of such disapproval,
but  without  prejudice  to  anything  previously  done
thereunder.

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

45

(7) Notification of the date on which any rule made by
the Authority is deemed to be rescinded shall be published
in the Gazette.

53.

(1)  The  Minister  may  make  regulations  with  the
concurrence of the Authority in respect of any matter required
by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of which regulations
are authorized by this Act to be made.

Regulations

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister with
the concurrence of the Authority may make regulations in
respect of the following matters:–

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

amendment,  addition  to  or  variation  of  the
conditions under Schedules I, II, III and IV;

identification of the third countries that ensure level
of  protection  referred  to  in  subsection  (2)  of
section 26  taking  into  consideration,  the  relevant
legislation,  enforceability  of  the  data  subject’s
rights  and  freedoms,  international  commitments,
effective  administrative  and  judicial  redress
availability  for  the  data  subjects  whose  personal
data are being transferred;

specifying  the  fees  and  charges  levied  for  any
service provided under this Act;

specifying the categories and criteria of licenses to
be issued under this Act;

(e) providing  for  terms  and  conditions,  form  and
duration,  procedure  for  application,  renewal,
suspension, cancellation of such licences and appeal
against  the  refusal,  suspension  or  cancellation  of
licences;

46

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

(f)

charging of fees for the issue of licences;

(g)

(h)

specifying the conditions for providing appropriate
safeguard for the rights and freedoms of data subjects
relating to protection of personal data;

specifying the form and manner by which appeals
may be made to the Authority under the provisions
of this Act.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1), shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in such regulation.

(4)  Every  regulation  made  under  subsection  (1),  shall
within three months after its publication in the Gazette be
brought before Parliament for approval and any regulation,
which is not so approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded
with effect from the date of such disapproval, but without
prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is deemed to be rescinded shall be published
in the Gazette.

54. Every person appointed under the authority of this
Act shall, before entering upon his duties, sign a declaration
pledging himself to observe strict secrecy in respect of any
information,  which  may  come  to  his  knowledge  in  the
exercise, performance and discharge of his powers, duties
and  functions  under  this  Act,  shall  by  such  declaration
pledge himself not to disclose any such information, except–

(a) when required to do so by a Court of law; or

(b)

in  order  to  comply  with  any  of  the  provisions  of
this Act or any other written law.

Official  Secrecy

Removal  of
difficulties

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

47

55.

(1)  If  any  difficulty  arises  in  giving  effect  to  the
provisions  of  this  Act  or  the  rules,  regulations,  or  Orders
made under this Act, the Minister may by Order published
in  the Gazette,  make  such  provision  not  inconsistent  with
the provisions of this Act, or any other written law, as appears
to the Minister to be necessary or expedient for removing
the  difficulty:

Provided that, no such Order shall be made after the expiry
of a period of five years from the date of coming into operation
of this Act.

(2) Every Order made under this section shall, within three

months after it is made, be laid before Parliament.

PART X

INTERPRETATION

56.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires–

Interpretation

“anonymise”  in  relation  to  personal  data  means
permanent removal of any personal identifiers
from personal data to render any such personal
data  from  being  related  to  a  identified  or
identifiable  natural  person;

“automated  processing”  means,  processing  that
does not involve any manual processing;

“biometric  data”  means,  personal  data  resulting
from  specific  technical  processing  relating
to  the  physical,  physiological  or  behavioral
characteristics  of  a  natural  person,  which
allow or confirm the unique identification of
that natural person, including facial images,
dactyloscopic data or iris related data;

48

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

“certifying  bodies”  means,  the  bodies  local  or
foreign  that  provide  certification  services
relating to the processing of personal data or
qualifications of Data Protection Officers;

“child” means, a natural person who is below the

age of sixteen years;

“consent”  means,  any  freely  given,  specific,
informed  and  unambiguous  indication  by
way of a written declaration or an affirmative
action signifying a data subject’s agreement
to the processing of his personal data;

“controller” means, any natural or legal person,
public  authority,  public  corporation,  non-
governmental  organization,  agency  or  any
other  body  or  entity  which  alone  or  jointly
with  others  determines  the  purposes  and
means of the processing of personal data;

“cross-border data flow ” means, the movement of
personal data out of the territory of Sri Lanka
for the purpose of processing personal data
in a third country;

“dactyloscopic  data”  means,  data  relating  to

fingerprints;

“data  concerning  health”  means,  personal  data
related  to  the  physical  or  psychological
health  of  a  natural  person,  which  includes
any  information  that  indicates  his  health
situation or status;

“Data Protection Authority” means, the Authority
established under section 28 of this Act;

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

49

“Data Protection Officer” means, the person designated
or appointed under section 20 of this Act;

“data subject” means, an identified or identifiable
natural  person,  alive  or  deceased,  to  whom
the personal data relates;

“identifiable  natural  person”  is  a  natural  person
who can be identified, directly or indirectly,
by reference to any personal data;

“encryption”  means,  the  act  of  ciphering  or
altering  data  using  mathematical  algorithm
to  make  such  data  unintelligible  to
unauthorized  users;

“financial  data”  means,  any  alpha-numeric
identifier  or  other  personal  data  which  can
identify an account opened by a data subject,
or  card  or  payment  instrument  issued  by  a
financial institution to a data subject or any
personal  data  regarding  the  relationship
between  a  financial  institution  and  a  data
subject,  financial  status  and  credit  history
relating to such data subjects, including data
relating to remuneration;

“genetic  data”  means,  personal  data  relating  to
the genetic characteristics of a natural person
which  gives  unique  information  about  the
physiology or the health of that natural person
which results from an analysis of a biological
sample or bodily fluid of that natural person;

50

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

“local  authority”  means,  a  Municipal  Council,
Urban  Council  or  a  Pradeshiya  Sabha  and
includes any authority created or established
by or under any law to exercise, perform and
discharge  powers,  duties  and  functions
corresponding or similar to the powers, duties
and  functions  exercised,  performed  or
discharged by any such Council or Sabha;

“Minister”  means,  the  Minister  assigned  the
subject of data protection under Article 44 or
45 of the Constitution;

“personal data” means, any information that can
identify a data subject directly or indirectly,
by reference to–

(a) an  identifier  such  as  a  name,  an
identification  number,  financial  data,
location data or an online identifier; or

(b) one  or  more  factors  specific  to  the
physical,  physiological,  genetic,
psychological,  economic,  cultural  or
social  identity  of  that  individual  or
natural person.

“personal data breach” means, any act or omission
that  results  in  accidental  or  unlawful
destruction,  loss,  alteration,  unauthorized
disclosure  of,  or  access  to,  personal  data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed;

“personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin”
means,  any  personal  data  including
photographs that may indicate or be related
to the race or ethnicity of a natural person;

“prescribed”  means,  prescribed  by  regulations

made under this Act;

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

51

“processing” means, any operation performed on
personal  data  including  but  not  limited  to
collection,  storage,  preservation,  alteration,
retrieval,  disclosure,  transmission,  making
available,  erasure,  destruction  of,
consultation, alignment, combination, or the
carrying  out  of  logical  or  arithmetical
operations on personal data;

“processor” means, a natural or legal person, public
authority  or  other  entity  established  by  or
under  any  written  law,  which  processes
personal data on behalf of the controller;

for the avoidance of doubt, a processor shall
be  a  separate  entity  or  person  from  the
controller  and  not  a  person  subject  to  any
hierarchical  control  of  the  controller  and
excludes  processing  that  is  done  internally
such as one department processing for another,
or an employee processing data on behalf of
their employer;

Illustration:  Hospital  A,  employs  a  data
scientist  as  an  employee  to  manage  its
analysis of patient records. The Hospital has
decided to store its patient records on a third-
party  local  cloud  platform  hosted  by
Company B. Hospital A is the controller, and
the  Company  B  is  the  processor  where
management of patient records are concerned.
The data scientist of the hospital is only an
employee  of  the  controller  and  not  a
processor.

52

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

“profiling” means, processing of personal data to
evaluate,  analyse  or  predict  aspects
concerning  that  data  subject’s  performance
at work, economic situation, health, personal
preferences,  interests,  credibility,  behavior,
habits, location or movements;

“pseudonymisation”  means,  the  processing  of
personal  data  in  such  a  manner  that  the
personal  data  cannot  be  used  to  identify  a
data  subject  without  the  use  of  additional
information and such additional information
is kept separately and is subject to technical
and  organizational  measures  to  ensure  that
the  personal  data  is  not  attributed  to  a  data
subject;

“public  authority”  means,  a  Ministry,  any
Department  or    Provincial  Council,  local
authority,  statutory  body  or  any  institution
established by any written law, or a Ministry,
any  Department  or  other  authority  or
institution  established  or  created  by  a
Provincial  Council;

“relevant  regulatory  or  statutory  body”  means,
the regulatory or statutory body established
by or under any written law which regulates,
authorizes  or  supervises  the  controller  and
includes  a  Ministry  which  carries  out  the
supervisory  functions  for  the  purpose  of
sections 26, 27 and 38 of this Act;

“recipient”  means,  a  natural  or  legal  person  to
whom  the  personal  data  is  disclosed,  or  a
public  Authority  or  any  incorporated  or
unincorporated  body  to  which  the  personal
data is disclosed;

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

53

“special categories of personal data” means, the
personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin,
political opinions, religious or philosophical
beliefs,  the  processing  of  genetic  data,
biometric  data  for  the  purpose  of  uniquely
identifying a natural person, data concerning
health or data concerning a natural person’s
sex life or sexual orientation, personal data
relating to offences, criminal proceedings and
convictions,  or  personal  data  relating  to  a
child;

“Sri  Lanka”  means,  the  territorial  limits  of  Sri
Lanka  as  stipulated  by  Article  5  of  the
Constitution  and  includes  the  territorial
waters or air space of Sri Lanka, any ship or
aircraft registered in Sri Lanka, any location
within the premises of a Sri Lankan mission
or the residence of the Head of such mission,
diplomatic agent or any other member of such
mission, situated outside Sri Lanka, or within
any premises occupied on behalf of, or under
the control of, the Government of Sri Lanka
or any statutory body established in Sri Lanka
and situated outside Sri Lanka;

“third country” means, a country prescribed under
section 26 for the purpose of cross-border data
flow;

“third  party”  means,  a  natural  or  legal  person,
public authority, agency or body other than
the  data  subject,  controller,  processor  and
persons who are under the direct authority of
the controller or processor, are authorized to
process personal data;

“written” includes a document written manually

or  electronically.

54

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

57.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

(Section  5  (a))

SCHEDULE I

CONDITIONS FOR LAWFUL PROCESSING

(a)

the  data  subject  has  given  consent  to  the  processing  of  his

personal  data;  or

(b)

processing  is  necessary  for  the  performance  of  a  contract  to

which  the  data  subject  is  a  party  or  in  order  to  take  steps  at

the  request  of  the  data  subject  prior  to  entering  into  a

contract;  or

(c)

processing  is  necessary  for  compliance  with  a  legal

obligation  to  which  the  controller  or  processor  is  subject  to

under  any  written  law;  or

(d)

processing  is  necessary  to  respond  to  an  emergency  that

threatens  the  life,  health  or  safety  of  the  data  subject  or

another  natural  person;  or

(e)

processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried

out  in  the  public  interest  or  in  the  exercise  of  powers,

functions  or  duties  conferred,  imposed  or  assigned  on    the

controller  or  processor  by    or  under  any  written  law

including  any  circular,  direction  or  code  issued  by  the

government;  or

(f)

processing  is  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  the  legitimate

interests  pursued  by  the  controller  or  by  a  third  party,

except  where  such  interests  are  overridden  by  the  interests

of  the  data  subject  which  require  protection  of  personal

data,  in  particular  where  the  data  subject  is  a  child.

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

55

(g)

for the purpose of item (e) of this Schedule, “public interest”

includes-

(i) processing  of  personal  data  is  necessary  for  health

purposes  such  as  public  health  and  social  protection

and  the  management  of  health  care  services;

(ii) processing    of  personal  data  is  necessary  for  the

control  of  communicable  deceases  and  other  serious

threats  to  health;

(iii) processing  of  personal  data    is  necessary  by  official
authorities  for  achieving  the  purposes  or  objects  laid
down  by  law.

(h)

for  the  purpose  of  item  (f)  of  this  Schedule,  “legitimate
interest”  includes–

(i) processing  in  situations  where  the  data  subject  is  a

client  or  in  the  service  of  a  controller;

(ii) whether  a  data  subject  reasonably  expects  at  the  time
and  in  the  context  of  the  collection  of  the  personal
data  that  processing  for  that  purpose  may  take  place;

(iii) processing  of  personal  data    is  strictly  necessary  for

the  purposes  of  preventing  fraud;

(iv) processing  of  personal  data  to  the  extent  strictly
necessary  and  proportionate  for  the  purposes  of
ensuring  network  and  information  security.

(Section  5  (b))

SCHEDULE II

CONDITIONS FOR PROCESSING SPECIAL CATEGORIES OF PERSONAL DATA

(a)

the  data  subject  has  given  consent,  to  the  processing  of
special  categories  of  personal  data  for  one  or  more  purposes
specified  by  the  controller  at  the  time  of  processing,  unless
any  other  written  law  prohibits  the  processing  of  such
personal data notwithstanding the consent of the data subject
concerned.  In  the  case  of  a  child,  consent  shall  mean  the
consent  of  the  parent  or  legal  guardian  of  such  child;  or

56

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

(b)

processing  is  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  carrying  out  the

obligations  of  the  controller  and  exercising  of  the  rights  of

the  data  subject,  in  the  field  of  employment,  social  security

including  pension,  and  for  public  health  purposes    ensuring

public  safety,  monitoring  and  public  alert    systems  relating

to  impending  health  or  other  emergencies,  the  prevention

or  control  of  communicable  diseases  and  other  serious

threats to public health and the management of public health-

care services in so far as it is provided for in any written law

providing  for  appropriate  safeguards  for  rights  of  the  data

subject;  or

(c)

processing  is  necessary  to  respond  to  an  emergency  that

threatens  the  life,  health  or  safety  of  the  data  subject  or

another  natural  person  where  the  data  subject  is  physically

or  legally  incapable  of  giving  consent;  or

(d)

processing  relates  to  personal  data  which  is  manifestly  made

public  by  the  data  subject;  or

(e)

processing  is  necessary  for  the  establishment,  exercise  or

defence  of  legal  claims  before  a  court  or  tribunal  or  such

similar forum, or whenever courts are acting in their judicial

capacity;  or

(f)

processing  is  necessary  for,  any  purpose  as  provided  for  in

any  written  law  or  public  interest  as  determined  under  item

(g) of Schedule I, which shall be necessary and proportionate

to  the  aim  pursued  whilst  providing  suitable  and  specific

measures  to  safeguard  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  the  data

subject;  or

(g)

processing  is  necessary  for  the  purposes  of  preventive  or

occupational  medicine,  medical  diagnosis,  the  provision  of

care  or  treatment  or  the  management  of  health-care  services,

and  where  such  data  is  processed  by  a  health  professional

licensed  under  or  authorized  by  any  written  law  prevailing

in  Sri  Lanka;  or

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

57

(h)

processing  is  necessary  for  archiving  purposes  in  the  public

interest,  scientific  research  or  historical  research  purposes

or  statistical  purposes  in  accordance  with  law  which  shall

be  proportionate  to  the  aim  pursued,  protecting  the  data

protection  rights  enumerated  in  this  Act  or  any  other  written

law  and  provide  for  suitable  and  specific  measures  to

safeguard  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  the  data  subject.

(Section  5  (c))

SCHEDULE III

CONDITIONS FOR CONSENT OF THE DATA SUBJECT

(a)

the  controller  shall  demonstrate  that  the  data  subject  has

consented  to  processing  of  the  personal  data  relating  to

such  data  subject;

(b)

if  the  consent  of  the  data  subject  is  given  in  the  context  of

a  written  declaration  which  also  concerns  other  matters,  the

request  for  consent  shall  be  presented  in  a  manner  which  is

clearly  distinguishable  from  the  other  matters,  in  an

intelligible  and  easily  accessible  form,  using  clear  and  plain

language:

Provided  that,  such  a  declaration  shall  not  constitute  an

infringement  of  any  provisions  of  this  Act.

(c) when  assessing  whether  consent  is  freely  given,  special

consideration  shall  be  taken  of  whether,  inter  alia,  the

performance  of  a  contract,  including  the  provision  of  a

service,  is  conditional  on  consent  to  the  processing  of

personal  data  that  is  not  necessary  for  the  performance  of

that  contract;  and

(d)

prior  to  giving  consent,  the  data  subject  shall  be  informed

thereof  that  consent  can  be  withdrawn  anytime  subject  to

the  provisions  of  this  Act.

58

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

SCHEDULE IV

(Section  5  (d))

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA RELATING TO CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS

(a)

(b)

processing  of  personal  data  relating  to  lawful  investigations
of  offences  or  related  security  measures  shall  be  carried  out
only  in  accordance  with  applicable  written  laws,  whilst
providing  for  appropriate  safeguards  for  the  rights  and
freedoms  of  data  subjects;

for  the  avoidance  of  doubt,  processing  of  personal  data
may  be  considered  lawful  under  this  Schedule  if
investigations  are  carried  out  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of
the  Code  of  Criminal  Procedure  Act,  No.  15  of  1979  or
provisions  under  any  other  written  law;  and

(c)

conditions  for  providing  appropriate  safeguards  for  the
rights  and  freedoms  of  data  subjects  under  this  Schedule
may  be  as  prescribed.

(Sections  11  and  13)

SCHEDULE V

COLLECTION OF PERSONAL DATA

1. where  the  personal  data  relating  to  a  data  subject  is  collected
from  the  data  subject,  the  controller  shall  provide  the  data  subject
with  the  following  information,  at  the  time  of  collection  of  such
personal  data  -

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

the  identity  and  contact  details  of  the  controller  and  where
applicable  of  the  controller’s  representative;

the  contact  details  of  the  Data  Protection  Officer,  where
applicable;

the  intended  purposes  for  which  the  personal  data  is
processed  and  the  legal  basis  for  the  processing;

the  legitimate  interest  pursued  by  the  controller  or  by  a
third  party  where  processing  is  based  on  item  (f)  of
Schedule 1;

(e)

the  categories  of  personal  data  being  collected;

(f) where  processing  is  intended  to  be  based  on  consent
pursuant  to  item  (a)  of  Schedule  I  and  item  (a)  of  Schedule

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

59

II,  the  existence  of  the  right  of  the  data  subject  to  withdraw
his  consent,  and  the  procedure  for  such  withdrawal,  without
affecting  the  lawfulness  of  processing  based  on  consent
before  its  withdrawal;

(g)

(h)

(i)

(j)

recipients  or  third  parties  with  whom  such  personal  data
may  be  shared,  if  applicable;

information  regarding  any  cross-border  transfer  of  the
personal  data  that  the  controller  intends  to  carry  out,  if
applicable;

the  period  for  which  the  personal  data  shall  be  retained  in
terms  of  section  9  or  where  such  period  is  not  known,  the
criteria  for  determining  such  period;
the  existence  of  and  procedure  for  the  exercise  of  rights  of
the  data  subject  referred  to  in  Part  II;

(k)

the  existence  of  a  right  to  file  complaints  to  the  Authority;

(l) whether  the  provision  of  personal  data  by  the  data  subject
is  a  statutory  or  contractual  requirement,  or  a  requirement
necessary  to  enter  into  a  contract,  as  well  as  whether  the
data  subject  is  obliged  to  provide  the  personal  data  and  of
the  possible  consequences  of  failure  to  provide  such  data;
and

(m)

the  existence  of  automated    individual  decision-making
referred  to  in  section  18,  including  profiling,  and,  at  least
in  those  cases,  reasonably  meaningful  information  about
the  logic  involved,  as  well  as  the  significance  and  the
envisaged  consequences  of  such  processing  for  the  data
subject.

2. Where  the  controller  intends  to  further  process  the  personal
data  for  a  purpose  other  than  for  which  it  was  originally  collected,  the
controller  shall  provide  the  data  subject  detailed  information  on  the
further  processing  in  the  manner  provided  in  item  1  of  this  Schedule
and  the  purpose  thereof.

3.

Items  1  and  2  of  this  Schedule  shall  not  apply  where  the  data

subject  already  has  obtained  or  made  aware  of  the  information.

60

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

4. Where  the  personal  data  of  the  data  subject  has  been  obtained
other  than  through  a  direct  interaction  with  the  data  subject,  the
controller  shall  provide  the  data  subject,  the  source  from  which  the
personal  data  originate,  and  whether  or  not  it  came  from  publicly
accessible  source,  where  applicable  in  addition  to  the  information
required  under  item  1  of  this  Schedule.

5. Where  the  personal  data  of  the  data  subject  has  been  obtained
other  than  through  a  direct  interaction  with  the  data  subject,  the
controller  shall  provide  the  information  under  items  1  and  4  of  this
Schedule  –

(a) within  a  reasonable  period  of  time  after  obtaining  the
personal  data,  but  at  least  within  one  month,  having  regard
to  the  specific  circumstances  in  which  the  personal  data  is
processed;

(b)

if  the  personal  data  is  to  be  used  for  communication  with
the data subject, at least at the time of the first communication
to  that  data  subject;  or

(c)

if  a  disclosure  to  another  recipient  is  envisaged,  at  least
when  the  personal  data  is  first  disclosed.

6.

Items  1  to  4  of  this  Schedule  shall  not  apply  where  –

(a)

(b)

the  controller  has  established  the  fact    that  the  data
subject  has  already  been  provided  with    or  made  aware
of  the  information;  or

the  provision  of  such  information  proves  impossible
or  would  involve  a  disproportionate  effort,  in
particular  for  processing  for  archival  purposes  in  the
public  interest  in  the  manner  provided  for  by  any
written  law,  scientific  research,  historical  research  or
statistical  research  purposes,  subject  to  the  conditions
and  safeguards  provided  in  this  Act  or  in  so  far  as  the
obligation  referred  to  in  item  1  of  this  Schedule  is
likely  to  render  impossible  or  seriously  impair  the
achievement  of  the  objectives  of  that  processing.
In  such  cases  the  controller  shall  take  appropriate
measures  to  protect  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  data
subject  protected  under  any  written  law,  including
making  the  relevant  information  publicly  available;
or

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

61

(c)

(d)

obtaining  or  disclosure  is  expressly  laid  down  by  any
written law to which the controller is subjected to and which
provides  appropriate  measures  to  protect  the  rights  and
freedoms  of  data  subjects  protected  under  this  Act  and  such
written  law;  or

the  personal  data  shall  remain  confidential,  consequent  to
obligations  of  professional  privilege  or  is  not  permitted  to
be  disclosed  under  any  written  law,  including  a  statutory
obligation  of  secrecy.

(Section  29  (5))

SCHEDULE VI

1. Every  member  of  the  Board  other  than  the  Chairperson  shall,
unless  he  vacates  office  earlier  by  death,  resignation  or  removal,  hold
office  for  a  term  of  three  years  from  the  date  of  his  appointment  and
unless  he  has  been  removed  from  office,  be  eligible  for  reappointment:

Term  of  office
of  members

Provided  that,  a  member  appointed  in  place  of  a  member  who  had
vacated  office,  by  death,  resignation  or  removal,  shall  hold  office  for
the  unexpired  term  of  office  of  the  member  whom  he  succeeds.

2.  (1)  Any  member  of  the  Board  may  at  any  time  resign  his  office
by  letter  addressed  to  the  President  and  such  resignation  shall  take
effect  upon  it  being  accepted  by  the  President.

Resignation  of
members  of  the
Board

(2)  In  the  event  of  vacation  of  office  of  any  member  by  reason  of
death,  resignation,  removal,  the  President  may  appoint  another  person
having  regard  to  the  provisions  of  subsection  (3)  and  (4)  of  section
29  to  hold  office  for  the  unexpired  period  of  the  term  of  office  of  the
member  whom  he  succeeds.

(3)  If  any  member  other  than  the  Chairperson  is  temporarily  unable
to  perform  the  duties  of  his  office  for  a  period  exceeding  three  months
due  to  ill  health  or  absence  from  Sri  Lanka  or  for  any  other  cause,  the
President  may  appoint  some  other  person  to  act  in  his  place  during
such  period  having  regard  to  the  provisions  of  subsection  (3)  and  (4)
of  section  29.

(4)  A  member  of  the  Board  who,  without  leave  of  the  first  being
obtained,  absents  himself  from  three  consecutive  meetings  of  the
Authority  shall  be  deemed  to  have  vacated  his  office.

Disqulifications
and  grounds  for
removal  of  a
member  of  the
Board

Members  to
disclose  any
interest

62

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

3.  (1)  A  person  shall  be  disqulified  from  being  appointed  or  from

continuing  as  a  member  of  the  Board  if  he–

(a)

(b)

is  or  becomes  a  member  of  Parliament,  or  a  member  of  any
Provincial  Council  or  any  local  authority;

is  or  becomes  of  unsound  mind  or  incapable  of  carrying
out  his  duties;

(c)

is  or  has  become  an  undischarged  bankrupt;

(d)

is  or  has  been  convicted  of  an  offence  which  involves
moral  turpitude;

(e)

has  been  previously  removed  from  office.

(2)  The  President  shall  remove  a  member  of  the  Board  from

continuing  as  a  member  if  he–

(a)

is  guilty  of  serious  misconduct  in  relation  to  his  duties;

(b)

(c)

abuses  his  position  so  as  to  render  his  continuation  in  office
detrimental  to  the  interest  of  the  Authority;
is  disqualified  under  paragraph  (1)  of  item  3;  or

(d)

contravenes  the  provisions  of  this  Act.

4. A member who is directly or indirectly interested in any decision
that  is  to  be  taken  on  any  matter  by  the  Board  shall  disclose  the  nature
of  such  interest  at  the  meeting  of  the  Board  where  such  decision  is
being  taken,  and  such  disclosure  shall  be  recorded  in  the  minutes  of
the  meetings  of  the  Board  and  such  member  shall  not  take  part  in  any
deliberation  or  decision  of  the  Board  with  regard  to  that  matter,  and
shall withdraw from such meeting while such deliberation is in progress
or  such  decision  is  being  made.

Remuneration  of
members

5.  The  members  of  the  Board,  may  be  remunerated  in  such  manner
in  consultation  with  the  Minister  assigned  the  subject  of  Finance  and
shall  carry  out  their  functions  subject  to  such  terms  and  conditions  as
may  from  time  to  time  be  determined  by  the  President.

Quorum  and  the
Meetings  of  the
Board

6.  (1)  The  quorum  for  any  meeting  of  the  Board  shall  be  three

members  including  the  Chairperson.

(2)  The  Director-General  shall  summon  all  meetings  of  the  Board.

(3)  A  meeting  of  the  Board  may  be  held  either–

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

63

(a)

(b)

by  the  number  of  members  who  constitute  a  quorum  being
assembled  at  the  place,  date  and  time  appointed  for  the
meeting;  or

by  means  of  audio-visual  communication  by  which  all
members  participating  and  constituting  a  quorum  can
simultaneously  see  and  hear  each  participating  member  for
the  duration  of  the  meeting.

(4)  All  questions  for  decision  at  any  meeting  of  the  Board  shall  be
decided  by  the  vote  of  the  majority  of  members  present  and  voting  at
such  meeting.  In  the  case  of  an  equality  of  votes,  the  Chairperson
shall,  in  addition  to  his  vote,  have  a  casting  vote.

(5)  The  Chairperson  shall  preside  at  every  meeting  of  the  Board.
In  the  absence  of  the  Chairperson  from  any  meeting  of  the  Board,  any
member  elected  by  the  members  present  shall  preside  at  such  meeting
of  the  Board.

(6)  The  meetings  of  the  Board  shall  be  conducted  in  conformity
with  the  rules  made  and  procedure  established,  by  it  from  time  to
time.

7.  No  proceeding,  act  or  decision  of  the  Board  shall  be  invalidated
by  reason  only  of  the  existence  of  a  vacancy  among  its  members  or  of
any  defect  in  the  appointment  of  a  member  thereof.

8.  (1)  The  seal  of  the  Authority  shall  be  in  the  custody  of  the

Board.

(2)  The  seal  of  the  Authority  may  be    altered  in  such  manner  as

may  be  determined  by  the  Board.

(3)  The  seal  of  the  Authority  shall  not    be  affxed  to  any  instrument
or  document  except  in  the  presence  of  one  member  of  the  Board  and
the Director-General of the Authority or in the absence of the Director-
General,  in  the  presence  of  any  two  members  of  the  Board,  who  shall
sign  the  instrument  or  document  in  token  of  their  presence.

(4)  The  Board  shall  maintain  a  register  of  the  instruments  and

documents  to  which  the  seal  of  the  Authority  has  been  affixed.

Proceedings,
acts  or  decisions
not  invalidated
by  reason  of  a
vacancy

Seal  of  the
Authority

64

Personal Data Protection Act, No. 9 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

