THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of September 09, 2022

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 09.09.2022)

BUREAU  OF  REHABILITATION

A

BILL

to provide for the establishment of a Bureau to be called and known as the
Bureau of Rehabilitation; regulate its powers,  duties and functions and to
 provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Justice, Prison Affairs and
Constitutional  Reforms

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 45.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

1

L.D.— O. 8/2018

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A BUREAU TO BE
CALLED AND KNOWN AS THE BUREAU OF REHABILITATION; TO
REGULATE ITS POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS AND TO PROVIDE FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS having regard to the need and the importance of
regulating the rehabilitation of the misguided combatants,
individuals  engaged  in  extreme  or  destructive  acts  of
sabotage  and  those  who  have  become  drug  dependant
persons and it has become a serious problem and national
issue:

5

Preamble

AND WHEREAS the office of the Commissioner-General of
Rehabilitation already created under the provisions of Public
Security Ordinance (Chapter 40) and Prevention of Terrorism
(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 48 of 1979 and the President
has  originally  vested  such  Commissioner-General  of
Rehabilitation  with  the  responsibility  of  rehabilitating  the
misguided  combatants  and  further  extended  such
responsibility  to  individuals  engaged  in  extreme  or
destructive  acts  of  sabotage  and    individuals  who  have
become  drug dependant persons:

10

15

AND  WHEREAS,  it  has  become  a  matter  of  national
importance  to  establish  a  Bureau  for  the  purpose  of
rehabilitating the above said persons:

20

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

25

1. This Act may be cited as the Bureau of Rehabilitation
Act, No.    of 2022, and the provisions of this Act other than
this  section  shall  come  into  operation  on  such  date  as  the
Minister  may  appoint  by  Order  published  in  the  Gazette
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “appointed  date”).  The
provisions of this section shall come into operation on the
date on which this Act becomes an Act of Parliament.

Short  title
and  date  of
operation

2

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BUREAU OF REHABILITATION

2.

(1) There shall be established a Bureau which shall
be called the “Bureau of Rehabilitation” (hereinafter referred
to as the “Bureau”).

5

Establishment
of  the  Bureau
of
Rehabilitation

(2)  The  Bureau  shall,  by  the  name  assigned  to  it  by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.

10

15

3. The objective of the Bureau shall be to rehabilitate
drug dependant persons, ex-combatants, members of violent
extremist groups and any other group of persons who require
treatments and rehabilitation by adopting various therapies
in order to ensure effective reintegration and reconciliation,
through  developing  socio-economic  standards.

Objective  of
the  Bureau

4. The powers, duties and functions of the Bureau shall

be to–

Powers,
duties  and
functions  of
the  Bureau

20

25

(a) provide  treatment  and  rehabilitation  to  drug
dependant  persons  who  requests  treatment  and
rehabilitation or is required by law to be provided
with treatment and rehabilitation;

(b) rehabilitate  ex-combatants,  members  of  violent
extremist  groups  and  any  other  group  of  persons
who  requests  treatment  and  rehabilitation  or  is
required by law to be provided with treatment and
rehabilitation;

(c) enhance the employability of persons undergoing
treatments and rehabilitation, minimizing the risk
of  socio-economic  marginalization;

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

3

(d) engage  in  an  organized  manner,  the  potentials  of
persons  who  are  undergoing  treatments  and
rehabilitation to use them productively to enhance
the  economy;

5

(e) review, monitor and provide any other assistance
to persons who have re-integrated into the society
after treatments and rehabilitation;

(f) receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or kind:

Provided  however,  the  Bureau  shall  obtain  the
prior written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the  subject  of  Finance,  in  respect  of  all  foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Bureau;

(g) open and maintain any account with any bank as it
may  think  appropriate  and  such  account  shall  be
operated in accordance with prevailing applicable
written laws;

(h) manage, control, administer and operate the Fund

of the Bureau;

(i) invest  such  amount  of  money  belonging  to  the
Bureau  as  are  not  immediately  required  for  the
purposes of this Act;

(j) acquire,  hold,  take  or  give  on  lease  or  hire,
mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of any
movable or immovable property;

(k) enter into and perform either directly or indirectly
through any officer or agent of the Bureau, all such
contracts or agreements as may be necessary, for
the exercise of the powers and the carrying out of
its  functions;

10

15

20

25

30

4

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

(l) make rules in respect of the administration of the

affairs of the Bureau;

(m) establish and maintain Centers for Rehabilitation:

Provided however, the centers established for the
rehabilitation  of  drug  dependant  persons  to  be
established and maintained under the direction of
the National Dangerous Drugs Control Board;

(n) conduct 

training  programs 

relating 

to

rehabilitation;  and

(o) do all such other acts which may be incidental or
conducive to the attainment of the objective of this
Act or the exercise of the powers assigned to the
Bureau under this Act.

PART II

5

10

15

ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF AFFAIRS OF THE BUREAU

5.

(1) The administration, management and control of
the  affairs  of  the  Bureau  shall  be  vested  in  a  Governing
Council (in this Act referred to as the “Council”).

20

(2) The Council shall, for the purpose of administering
the affairs of the Bureau, exercise, perform and discharge the
powers,  duties  and  functions  conferred  on,  assigned  to  or
imposed on the Bureau by this Act.

6. The Council shall consist of–

(a)

the following ex-officio members, namely–

25

(i) a  representative  of  the  National
Dangerous Drugs Control Board;

Administration
and
management
of  the  Bureau
vested  in  the
Council

Constitution
of  the
Council

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

5

(ii) the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister  assigned  the  subject  of
Defence  or  his  representative  not
below  the  rank  of  an  Additional
Secretary of that Ministry;

(iii) the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister  to  whom  the  Bureau  of
Rehabilitation  is  assigned  under
Article 44 or 45 of the Constitution or
his representative not below the rank
of  an  Additional  Secretary  of  that
Ministry;

(iv) the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister  assigned  the  subject  of
Health or his representative not below
the rank of an Additional Secretary of
that  Ministry;

(v) the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister  assigned  the  subject  of
Education  or  his  representative  not
below  the  rank  of  an  Additional
Secretary of that Ministry; and

(vi) the Inspector General of Police or his
representative not below the rank of a
Deputy Inspector General of Police;
and

(b)

three members appointed by the Minister who
shall  possess  academic  and  professional
qualifications and has experience in the fields
of  rehabilitation,  social  integration  and  law
and  order  (hereinafter  referred  to  as
“appointed members”).

5

10

15

20

25

30

6

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

7. 

(1) The Minister shall appoint one of the appointed

members to be the Chairperson of the Council.

Chairperson
of  the
Council

(2) The Chairperson may resign from his office by letter
addressed  to  the  Minister  and  such  resignation  shall  be
effective  from  the  date  on  which  it  is  accepted  by  the
Minister.

5

(3)  The  Minister  may  for  reasons  assigned  remove  the

Chairperson from the office of Chairperson.

10

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),
the term of office of the Chairperson shall be the period of
his membership of the Council.

(5)  Where  the  Chairperson  is  temporarily  unable  to
exercise,  perform  and  discharge  the  powers,  duties  and
functions  of  his  office  due  to  ill  health,  other  infirmity,
absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may
appoint any other appointed member to act as the Chairperson
in addition to his normal duties as an appointed member.

15

8. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed

or continuing as a member of the Council, if he –

20

(a) is or becomes a member of Parliament or of any
Provincial Council or of any local authority;

Disqualifications
from  being  a
member  of
the  Council

(b) is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c) is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other
country found or declared to be of unsound mind;

(d) is a person who having been declared insolvent or
bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka and is
an undischarged insolvent or bankrupt;

(e) is subject to an ongoing investigation in respect of
an  offence  involving  dangerous  drugs,  narcotic
drugs or psychotropic substances or fraud;

25

30

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

7

(f) is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment
of more than six months imposed by any court in
Sri Lanka or any other country;

(g) holds  or  enjoys  any  right  or  benefit  under  any
contract made by or on behalf of the Bureau; or

5

(h) has  any  financial  or  other  interest  as  is  likely  to
affect  prejudicially  the  discharge  by  him  of  his
functions as a member of the Council.

10

15

20

25

30

9. Every appointed member of the Council shall, unless
he vacates office earlier by resignation, death or removal,
hold office for a period of three years from the date of his
appointment  and  unless  is  removed  from  office  shall  be
eligible  for  reappointment  for  not  more  than  one  further
term, whether consecutive or otherwise.

Term  of
office

 10.

(1) Any appointed member of the Council may at
any  time,  resign  from  his  office  by  a  letter  to  that  effect,
addressed  to  the  Minister,  and  such  resignation  shall  be
effective from the date on which it is accepted by the Minister
in writing.

Resignation
and  removal

(2)  Where  any  appointed  member  by  reason  of  illness,
infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka is temporarily unable to
discharge  the  functions  of  his  office,  the  Minister  may,
having regard to the provisions of paragraph (b) of section 6,
appoint some other person to act in his place.

(3)  The  Minister  may  for  reasons  assigned,  remove  an
appointed member from office. An appointed member who
has  been  removed  from  office  shall  not  be  eligible  for
reappointment as a member of the Council or to serve the
Council in any other capacity.

(4)  Where  an  appointed  member  dies,  resigns  or  is
removed from office, the Minister may having regard to the
provisions  of  paragraph  (b)  of  section  6,  appoint  another

8

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

person in his place and the person so appointed shall hold
office for the unexpired period of the term of office of the
member whom he succeeds.

5

11.

(1)  The  meetings  of  the  Council  shall  be  held  at
least once in every month and the quorum for a meeting of
the Council shall be five members.

Quorum  and
meetings  of
the  Council

(2) The Chairperson shall preside at every meeting of the
Council. In the absence of the Chairperson from any meeting
of the Council, a member elected by the members present
shall preside at such meeting.

10

(3) A meeting of the Council may be held either-

(a) by  the  number  of  members  who  constitute  a
quorum being assembled at the place, date and
time appointed for the meeting; or

(b) by  means  of  audio-visual  communication  by
which  all  members  participating  and
constituting a quorum can simultaneously see
and  hear  each  participating  member  for  the
duration of the meeting.

(4)  All  questions  for  a  decision  at  any  meeting  of  the
Council  shall  be  decided  by  the  vote  of  the  majority  of
members present at such meeting. In the case of an equality
of votes, the Chairperson shall, in addition to his vote have
a casting vote.

(5)  Subject  to  the  preceding  provisions  of  this  section,
the  Council  may  regulate  the  procedure  in  relation  to  the
meetings of the Council and the transaction of business at
such meetings.

15

20

25

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

9

12. The Council may act notwithstanding any vacancy
among its members and any act or proceeding of the Council
shall not be or deemed to be invalid by reason only of the
existence of any vacancy among its members or any defect
in the appointment of a member thereof.

5

Acts  or
proceedings
of  the
Commission
deemed  not
to  be  invalid
by  reason  of
any  vacancy

13. The  members  of  the  Council  shall  be  paid
remuneration in such manner and at such rates as may be
determined  by  the  Minister,  with  the  concurrence  of  the
Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

Remuneration
of  the
members  of
the  Council

10

14.

(1) The seal of the Bureau shall be in the custody of

such person as the Council may decide from time to time.

Seal  of  the
Bureau

(2) The seal of the Bureau may be altered in such manner

as may be determined by the Council.

15

20

(3)  The  seal  of  the  Bureau  shall  not  be  affixed  to  any
instrument  or  document  except  with  the  sanction  of  the
Council  and  in  the  presence  of  the  Chairperson  and  one
other member of the Council who shall sign the instrument
or document in token of their presence:

Provided however, where the Chairperson is unable to be
present at the time when the seal of the Bureau is affixed to
any instrument or document, any other member of the Council
authorised in writing by the Chairperson in that behalf shall
be  competent  to  sign  such  instrument  or  document  in
accordance with the preceding provision of this subsection.

25

(4) The Bureau shall maintain a register of the instruments
and  documents  to  which  the  seal  of  the  Bureau  has  been
affixed.

PART III

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND THE STAFF OF THE BUREAU

30

15.

(1) There shall be a Chief Executive Officer of the
Bureau who shall be called and known as the Commissioner-
General  of  Rehabilitation  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“Commissioner-  General”),  appointed  by  the  Council  in

Appointment
of  the  Chief
Executive
Officer  of  the
Bureau

10

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

consultation with the Minister and on the recommendation
of  the  Minister  assigned  the  subject  of    Defence.  The
Commissioner- General, unless he vacates office earlier by
death, by operation of law, resignation or removal shall hold
office  for  a  term  of  two  years  and  shall  be  eligible  for
reappointment subject to a maximum period of any two terms
of office whether consecutive or otherwise.

(2)  The  Commissioner-  General  shall  subject  to  the

general directions and supervision of the Council–

(a) be charged with the administration of the affairs of
the Bureau and all the Centres established under it
including  the  administration  and  control  of  the
staff;

5

10

(b) be responsible for the execution of all decisions of

15

the  Council;  and

(c) carry out all such functions as may be assigned to

him by the Council.

(3) The Commissioner- General shall be present and speak
at any meeting of the Council, but shall not be entitled to
vote at such meeting.

20

(4) The Commissioner- General may, with the approval
of the Council, wherever he considers it necessary to do so,
delegate in writing to any officer or employee of the Bureau,
any of his powers, duties or functions conferred or imposed
on, or assigned to him by this Act and the officer or employee
to whom any such power, duty or function is delegated shall
exercise, perform or discharge them subject to the directions
of the Commissioner - General.

25

(5) The Council may remove the Commissioner-General

30

from office –

(a) if he becomes permanently incapable of performing

his  duties;

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

11

(b) if  he  had  done  any  act  which  the  Council  has
decided to be of a fraudulent or illegal character or
is prejudicial to the interests of the Bureau; or

(c) has failed to comply with any direction issued by

5

the  Council.

(6)  The  Commissioner-General  shall  be  paid  such

remuneration as may be determined by the Council.

16.

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Bureau
may employ or appoint such officers and employees as may
be  necessary  for  the  efficient  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions.

10

Staff  of  the
Bureau

(2)  The  Council  shall  have  the  power  subject  to  the

provision of the Act to –

15

20

25

(a) exercise disciplinary control over and dismiss the
officers  and  employees  of  the  Bureau  appointed
under subsection (1);

(b) determined the terms and conditions of service of
officers  and  employees  of  the  Bureau  appointed
under subsection (1); and

(c) fix the rates at which such officers and employees
shall be remunerated with the concurrence of the
Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

(3) All officers and employees of the Bureau shall, within
one month of employment, declare in writing to the Bureau
of their personal direct or indirect interest to the affairs and
transactions  of  the  Bureau  including  those  of  their  close
relations or, concerns in which such officer or employee has
a substantial interest.

(4) The Bureau may establish and regulate pension and
provident  funds  and  schemes  for  the  benefit  of  the

30

12

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

Commissioner- General and its officers and employees and
their dependants and nominees with the concurrence of the
Minister  assigned  the  subject  of  Finance  and  may  make
contributions to any such fund or scheme.

5

(5) The Bureau shall promote and sponsor the training of
its officers and employees and for this purpose, the Bureau
shall be authorised to defray the costs of study, in Sri Lanka
or abroad of the officers and employees of the Bureau who
are of proven merit as determined by the Bureau.

10

(6) The Bureau shall establish a code of conduct which
shall  be  applicable  to  the  officers  and  employees  of  the
Bureau.

(7) The Bureau shall not appoint any person to the staff

of the Bureau under subsection (1), where such person–

15

20

25

30

(a) has  been  previously  found  guilty  of  serious
misconduct by a court or tribunal or has been subject
to a disciplinary action by a regulatory body;

(b) has been previously dismissed from office; or

(c) has  committed  a  breach  of  the  provisions  of  this

Act, regulations or rules made thereunder.

(8) At the request of the Bureau any officer in the public
service may, with the consent of the officer and the Public
Service  Commission  established  by  the  Constitution  be
temporarily appointed to the Bureau for such period as may
be  determined  by  the  Bureau  or  with  like  consent,  be
permanently appointed to such staff.

(9) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Bureau,  the  provisions  of
subsection  (2)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

13

(10) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Commission, the provisions of
subsection  (3)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.

5

10

15

20

25

(11) Where the Bureau employs any person who has agreed
to serve the Government for a specified period, any period
of service to the Bureau by that person shall be regarded as
service  to  the  Government  for  the  purpose  of  discharging
the obligations of such agreement.

(12) The Bureau may with the consent of such officer or
employee propose secondment of its officers or employees
to  other  state  institutions  or  regulatory  authorities  in
Sri Lanka or abroad for a period determined by the Bureau
on an assignment agreed upon between such institution or
the  authority  and  the  Bureau.  The  period  of  secondment
shall be deemed to be considered as service to the Bureau.

17.

(1)  The  President  may,  upon  the  request  of  the
Minister, for the purposes of this Act, by Order published in
the Gazette, designate all or any of–

Authorised
members  of
the  Forces

(a) the  members  of  the  Sri  Lanka  Army  raised  and
maintained  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
the Army Act (Chapter 357);

(b) the  members  of  the  Sri  Lanka  Navy  raised  and
maintained  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
the Navy Act (Chapter 358); and

(c) the members of the Sri Lanka Air Force raised and
maintained  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
the Air Force Act (Chapter 359),

30

as  authorised  members  of  the  forces  who  may  exercise,
perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions under
this Act subject to the provisions of subsection (2).

14

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

(2) The Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette,
specify  the  areas  which  the  powers,  duties  and  functions
under this Act may be exercised, performed and discharged
by the authorised members of the Forces.

(3) The powers, duties and functions conferred or imposed
upon authorised members of the Forces by this section shall
be exercised, performed and discharged notwithstanding that
such  powers,  duties  and  functions  are  not  conferred  or
imposed  upon  them  by  the  provisions  of  the  Army  Act
(Chapter 357), the Navy Act (Chapter 358) or the Air Force
Act (Chapter 359).

18. The Services of any Medical Officer or any other
officer  or  employee  of  the  Department  of  Health  or  any
university or any medical practitioner or any other competent
person engaged in a similar service, may be obtained, subject
to the approval of the Director-General of Health Services,
or other relevant authority as the case may be, to assist in the
Centres for Rehabilitation established under this Act.

Use  of
services  of
officers  of
Department
of  Health,
etc.

PART IV

FINANCE

5

10

15

20

19.

(1) The Bureau shall have its own Fund (hereinafter

referred to as “the Fund”).

Fund  of  the
Bureau

(2) All money lying to the credit of the Commissioner -
General of Rehabilitation on the day immediately preceding
the  appointed  date  shall  be  transferred  to  the  Fund  with
effect from the appointed date.

25

(3) There shall be credited to the Fund –

(a) all sums of money as may be voted from time to
time by Parliament, for the use of the Bureau;

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

15

(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Bureau in the exercise and discharge of its powers,
duties and functions under this Act; and

(c) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Bureau by way of income, fees, charges, grants, gifts
or donations from any source whatsoever whether
within or outside Sri Lanka:

Provided that, the Bureau shall obtain the prior
written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the  subject  of  Finance,  in  respect  of  all  foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Bureau;

(4) There shall be paid out of the Fund –

(a) all  such  sums  of  money  as  are  required  to
defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Bureau  in  the  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions
under this Act; and

(b) all such sums of money as are required to be
paid out of the Fund by or under this Act.

5

10

15

20

20.

(1)  The  financial  year  of  the  Bureau  shall  be  the

calender year.

(2) The Council shall cause proper books of accounts to
be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Bureau.

25

Financial
year  and
audit  of
accounts

(3)  The  provisions  of  Article  154  of  the  Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to the audit of accounts of the Bureau.

(4)  The  Council  shall  submit  the  audited  statement  of
accounts together with the auditor’s report to the Minister

30

16

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

within one hundred and fifty days of the end of the financial
year to which such report relates. The Minister shall place
such statement and the report before Parliament within two
months of the receipt thereof.

PART V

GENERAL

Delegation  of
the  powers  of
the  Council

21.

(1) The Council may in writing and subject to such
conditions  as  may  be  specified  therein,  delegate  to  the
Commissioner-General  the  powers,  duties  and  functions
conferred  on  the  Council  under  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of
subsection (2) of section 16 and subsection (2) of section 20
and the Commissioner-General shall exercise, perform and
discharge  such  powers,  duties  and  functions  in  the  name
and on behalf of the Council.

(2)  The  Council  may,  notwithstanding  any  delegation
made  under  subsection  (1),  by  itself  exercise,  perform  or
discharge any power, duty or function so delegated and may
at any time revoke any such delegation.

22.

(1) A liability, whether civil or criminal, shall not
be  attached  to  any  officer  of  the  Bureau  or  to  any  officer
authorised by such officer, for anything which in good faith
is  done  in  the  exercise,  performance  or  discharge  of  any
power, duty or function imposed or conferred on the Bureau
under this Act.

Protection  of
officers  of
the  Bureau
from  suit  or
prosecution

(2)  Any  expense  incurred  by  the  Bureau  in  any  suit  or
prosecution  brought  by  or  against  the  Bureau  before  any
court shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund, and any
costs paid to, or recovered by, the Bureau in any such suit or
prosecution shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund.

5

10

15

20

25

30

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person in any suit
or  prosecution  brought  against  him  before  any  court  in
respect of any act which is done or purported to be done by

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

17

him under this Act or any appropriate instrument, or on the
direction of the Bureau, shall, if the court holds that the act
was  done  in  good  faith,  be  paid  out  of  the  Consolidated
Fund, unless such expense is recovered by him in such suit
or prosecution.

5

10

15

20

25

30

23. For the purposes of this Act, the Minister may, by
Order  published  in  the  Gazette,  establish  Centres  for
Rehabilitation  for  the  treatment  and  rehabilitation  of
ex-combatants, members of violent extremist groups, violent
extremist person and any other person or group of persons:

Centres  for
Rehabilitation

Provided,  the  Treatment  Centres  established  under  this
Act  to  provide  treatment  and  rehabilitation  to  drug
dependant persons shall be published in the Gazette under
the provisions of section 2 of the Drug Dependant Persons
(Treatment and Rehabilitation) Act, No. 54 of 2007 and shall
be subjected to the provisions of that Act.

24. Any person without authority introduces or attempts
to introduce into any Centre for Rehabilitation, or supplies
or  attempts  to  supply  any  person  in  such  Centre  with  a
dangerous drug, narcotic drug or psychotropic substance or
any unauthorised article commits an offence under this Act
and shall be ligble on conviction after summary trial by a
Magistrate  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  five  hundred  thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a period
not  exceeding  two  years  or  to  both  such  fine  and
imprisonment.

Supply  of
drugs

25.

(1) Every member of the Council, the Commissioner-
General and every officer or employee of the Bureau shall,
before entering into the duties of his office sign a declaration
that he will not disclose any information received by him or
coming to his knowledge in the exercise, performance and
discharge of his powers, duties and functions under this Act,
except for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of
this Act.

Duty  to
maintain
Secrecy

18

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

(2) All records pertaining to a person in the custody of a
Centre for Rehabilitation shall be confidential and shall not
be released except on an order of court or in connection with
an investigation in respect of the commission of a serious
offence within a Centre for Rehabilitation.

5

(3)  Any  person  who  contravenes  the  provisions  of
subsection (2) commits an offence under this Act, and shall
be liable on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate
to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding
twelve months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

26. Any person employed in a Centre for Rehabilitation
who without reasonable cause strikes, wounds, ill treats or
willfully neglects any person under rehabilitation commits
an offence under this Act and shall be liable on conviction
after summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding
two  hundred  thousand  rupees  or  imprisonment  of  either
description for a period not exceeding eighteen months or
to both such fine and imprisonment.

Striking  etc.
of  persons
under
treatment

27. Any person who obstructs or attempts to obstruct
any  person  employed  in  any  Centre  for  Rehabilitation  in
the  performance  of  his  duties  under  this  Act,  commits  an
offence  under  this  Act  and  shall  be  liable  on  conviction
after summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding
fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description
for a period not exceeding six months or to both such fine
and imprisonment.

Obstruction
of  employees
an  offence

28.

(1) Where any person undergoing rehabilitation in
a Centre for Rehabilitation established under the provisions
of this Act, escapes from such Centre, he may be apprehended
by any police officer, any authorised member of the Forces
or any officer appointed under this Act and returned to the
Centre for Rehabilitation.

Apprehension
of  persons
escaping

10

15

20

25

30

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

19

(2) It shall be the duty of any person employed in a Centre
for  Rehabilitation  to  preserve  order  and  discipline  among
the persons undergoing rehabilitation in the Centre and for
such  purpose  it  shall  be  lawful  for  such  person  to  use  all
such means including minimum force, as may reasonably be
necessary  to  compel  obedience  to  any  lawful  directions
given by him.

5

29.  Where  any  person  contravenes  any  provision  of
this Act or any rule or regulation made thereunder and no
penalty has been specified under this Act in respect of such
contravention,  such  person  shall,  on  conviction  after
summary  trail  by  a  Magistrate,  be  liable  to  a  fine  not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding six months or to both
such fine and imprisonment.

Penalties  for
contraventions
for  which  no
specific
provisions
have  been
made

30.

(1) The Bureau shall create, manage and maintain a
database which will include all particulars of the rehabilitees.
Such  database  shall  also  include  details  of  previous
rehabilitation  assistance  that  each  rehabilitee  may  have
received from any other State authority or agency.

Database

10

15

20

(2) The Bureau shall take all necessary steps including
technical safeguards to ensure the security of all its databases
and data.

25

31. The  Bureau  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  Scheduled
Institution  within  the  meaning  of  the  Bribery  Act
(Chapter 26)  and  the  provisions  of  that  Act  shall  be
construed  accordingly.

32. All  members  of  the  Council,  the  Commissioner-
General and all officers and employees of the Bureau shall
be deemed to be public servants within the meaning and for
the purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

30

Bureau
deemed  to  be
a  Scheduled
Institution
within  the
meaning  of
the  Bribery
Act
Members,
Commissioner-
General,
officers  and
employees  of
the  Bureau
deemed  to  be
public
servants

20

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

33. The  Minister  may  from  time  to  time  issue  to  the
Council  general  or  special  directions  as  to  the  exercise,
performance  and  discharge  of  the  powers,  duties  and
functions of the Council.

Directions  of
the  Minister

5

34.

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council
may  make  rules  in  respect  of  all  or  any  of  the  following
matters:-

Rules

(a) all matters for which rules are authorised or required

to be made under this Act;

10

(b) the meetings of the Council and the procedure to

be followed at such meeting;

(c) the  appointment,  promotion,  remuneration  and
disciplinary control of officers and employees and
the grant of leave and other emoluments to officers
and employees; and

(d) any matter connected with the affairs of the Bureau.

(2) Every rule made by the Bureau shall be approved by
the  Minister  and  published  in  the  Gazette  and  shall  come
into operation on the date of its publication or on such later
date as may be specified therein.

15

20

35.

(1)  The  Minister  may  make  regulations  for  the
purpose of carrying out and giving effect to the principles
and provisions of this Act.

Regulations

25

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred on subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations for-

(a) the maintenance of Centres for Rehabilitation; and

(b) the procedure for the rehabilitation, treatment and

after care:

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

21

5

10

Provided  that,  the  Minister  shall  obtain  the
concurrence  of  the  National  Dangerous  Drugs
Control Board, when any regulation in relation to
the Centres for Rehabilitation for the treatment and
rehabilitation of drug dependant persons is made.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister within three
months after its publication in the Gazette be brought before
Parliament  for  approval.  Any  regulation  which  is  not  so
approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of  such  disapproval  but  without  prejudice  to  anything
previously  done  thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is so

disapproved shall be published in the Gazette.

36. Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  any

Savings

15

other written law–

(a) all  movable  and  immovable  property  of  the
Commissioner-General of Rehabilitation on the day
immediately preceding the appointed date shall on
and after the appointed date be deemed to be the
movable and immovable property of the Bureau;

(b) the  Commissioner-General  of  Rehabilitation
holding  office  immediately  preceding  the
appointed  date  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been
appointed as such under this Act and continue to
hold office until the end of his tenure or until a new
Commissioner- General is appointed under this Act;

(c) all  officers  and  employees  of  the  Commissioner-
General of Rehabilitation holding office on the day
immediately  preceding  the  appointed  date  be
deemed  to  be  the  officers  and  employees  of  the
Bureau  and  such  officers  and  employees  shall
continue to hold office in the Bureau on the same
terms  and  conditions  enjoyed  by  them  under  the
Commissioner-General  of  Rehabilitation
immediately  preceeding  the  appointed  date;

20

25

30

35

22

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

5

10

15

20

25

30

(d) all contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements, guarantees,
powers of attorney, grants of legal representation
and  other  instruments  of  whatever  nature  of  the
Commissioner- General of Rehabilitation subsisting
and having effect on the day immediately preceding
the  appointed  date  and  to  which    Commissioner
General of Rehabilitation is a party or which are in
favour  of 
the  Commissioner-General  of
Rehabilitation on and after the appointed date be
deemed to be contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements,
guarantees,  powers  of  attorney,  grants  of  legal
representation  and  other  instruments  entered  into
by or granted in favour of the Bureau;

(e) unless  specifically  revoked  or  substituted  in  the
manner provided for in any other law, all approvals
or  licences  granted  to  the  Commissioner-General
of  Rehabilitation  by  any  regulatory  body  or
authority,  Provincial  Council  or  local  authority
subsisting or having effect on the day immediately
preceding the appointed date shall on and after the
appointed  date  be  deemed  to  be  approvals  or
licences granted to the Bureau;

(f) all Judgments, decrees or orders entered in favour
of  or  against  the  Commissioner-General  of
Rehabilitation  by  any  court  in  any  action  or
proceeding shall on and after the appointed date be
deemed to be judgments, decrees or orders entered
in favour of or against the Bureau; and

(g) all Protective Accommodation and Rehabilitation
Centres  approved  and  maintained  under  the
Commissioner- General of Rehabilitation shall on
and  after  the  appointed  date  be  deemed  to  be
Centres  for  Rehabilitation  established  under  the
provisions of this Act.

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

23

37.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires–

Interpretation

5

10

15

20

25

“dangerous  drug”  means  any  drug,  substance,
article or preparation specified in Part I of the
Third  Schedule  to  Poisons,  Opium  and
Dangerous Drugs Ordinance (Chapter 218);

“drug  dependant  person”  means  a  person  to
whom  the  Drug  Dependant  Persons
(Treatment and Rehabilitation) Act, No. 54
of 2007 applies;

“Minister”  means  the  Minister  assigned  the
subject of the Bureau of Rehabilitation under
Article 44 or 45 of the Constitution;

“narcotic drug” shall include the drugs specified
in  the  Third  Schedule  of  the  Convention
Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances Act, No. 1 of 2008;

“National  Dangerous  Drugs  Control  Board”
means the National Dangerous Drugs Control
Board established by the National Dangerous
Drugs Control Board Act, No. 11 of 1984;

“psychotropic  substances”  shall  include  the
substances specified in the Fourth Schedule
of  the  Convention  Against  Illicit  Traffic  in
Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances
Act, No. 1 of 2008;

“rehabilitation”  means 

treatment  and
rehabilitation, aftercare and support services
which  includes  a  set  of  interventions
designed to optimize functioning and reduce

24

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

disability  in  individuals  with  health  and
mental conditions when interacting with their
environment, to be as independent as possible
in  everyday  activities  and  enables
participation  in  education,  work,  recreation
and a meaningful life.

5

38.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

Bureau  of  Rehabilitation

25

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

