PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

PREVENTION  OF  TERRORISM
(TEMPORARY  PROVISIONS)  (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 12 OF 2022

[Certified on 29th of March, 2022]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 01, 2022

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 14.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2022

1

[Certified on 29th of March, 2022]

L.D.–O. 1/2022

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PREVENTION OF TERRORISM
(TEMPORARY PROVISIONS) ACT, NO. 48 OF 1979

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Prevention of Terrorism
(Temporary Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2022.

Short    title

2. Section 9 of the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary
Provisions) Act, No. 48 of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as
the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended in the proviso
to subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for the words
“eighteen months.” of the words “twelve months.”.

Amendment  of
section  9  of  Act,
No.  48  of  1979

Insertion  of
sections  9A  and
9B  in  the
principal
enactment

  3. The  following  new  sections  are  hereby  inserted
immediately after section 9 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as sections 9A and 9B of that enactment: -

“Certified
copy  of  the
detention
Order  to  be
served  on  the
Magistrate

9A. (1) The officer in charge of the place of
detention shall, forthwith and in any case, not
later  than  forty-eight  hours  from  the  time  of
issuance  of  an  Order  under  section  9,    make
available a certified copy of such Order to the
Magistrate within whose judicial division the
place of detention of the person in respect of
whom  such  Order  relates  is  situated,  for  the
Magistrate to visit such place of detention, in
terms of section 9B.

  (2)  The  detention  of  any  person  under
section 9 shall be communicated to the Human
Rights Commission of Sri Lanka in terms of
section 28 of the Human Rights Commission
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 21 of 1996, for the persons
authorized by the Human Rights Commission
of Sri Lanka to visit the place of detention in
terms of that Act.

2

Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2022

Duty  of  the
Magistrate  to
visit  place  of
detention

9B.  (1)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every
Magistrate who has received a certified copy
of a detention Order in terms of subsection (1)
of section 9A, to visit the place of detention of
the person to whom the Order relates (in this
section  referred  to  as  the  “suspect”)  at  least
once  in  every  month  during  the  period  of
detention, to ensure that the suspect is protected
to  the  extent  provided  for  in  the  Convention
Against Torture and other Cruel, Inhumane or
degrading Treatment or Punishment Act, No.22
of 1994.

(2)  For  the  purpose  of  subsection  (1),  the
Magistrate who visits any place of detention,
shall–

(a) personally  see  the  suspect,  and  look
into  his  wellbeing,  welfare  and
conditions  under  which  he  is  kept  at
such place of detention; and

(b) record  his  observations  and  any
complaint the suspect may make.

(3) Where the Magistrate is of the opinion,
that  the  suspect  may  have  been  subjected  to
torture, the Magistrate may –

(a) direct  that  the  suspect  be  produced
before  a  Judicial  Medical  Officer  for
medical examination, and a report  be
submitted  to  him  by  such  Judicial
Medical Officer; and

(b) make an order to change the place of

detention of the suspect.

Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2022

3

(4)  Where  the  report  of  such  Judicial
Medical  Officer  reveals  that  the  suspect  has
been subjected to torture, the Magistrate shall
make an appropriate order, to provide necessary
medical treatment to the suspect.

(5)  The  Magistrate  shall  also  direct  the
Inspector  General  of  Police  to  commence  an
investigation into the alleged torture in order
to  enable  the  Attorney-General  to  institute
criminal  proceedings  against  the  person  who
is alleged to have committed the torture.”.

4. Section  10  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

“Order  under
section  9  to
be  final

10. An Order made under section 9 shall be
final and shall not be called in question in any
proceedings or in any court of law, save and
except  in  proceedings  under  Article  126,140
or 141 of the Constitution.”.

Replacement  of
section  10  of
the  principal
enactment

5.  The  following  new  section  is  hereby  inserted
immediately after section 10 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 10A  of that enactment:-

Insertion  of
section  10A  in
the  principal
enactment

“An
Attorney-  at-
Law  to  have
access  to  a
person  in
remand  or  in
detention

10A. (1) An Attorney- at- Law representing
a person remanded or detained under this Act,
shall  have  the  right  of  access  to  such  person
and to make representations on behalf of such
person, subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed by regulations made under this Act
or as provided for in other written law.

(2)  A  person  remanded  or  detained  under
this Act shall have the right to communicate
with  his  relatives,  as  provided  for  in  written
law.”.

4

Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2022

Amendment  of
section  11  of  the
principal
enactment

6. Section  11  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby

amended as follows:-

(1) by  the  insertion  immediately  after  subsection  (1)

thereof, of the following subsections:-

“(1A) The person to whom an Order made under
subsection (1) relates, shall be produced before a
Judicial Medical Officer for medical examination
before  serving  such  Order  to  such  person  and  a
report be submitted by the Judicial Medical Officer
in respect of such person.

(1B) An Order made under subsection (1) shall be
served on the person to whom the Order relates, by
the  Magistrate  in  whose  judicial  division  such
person  resides  and  the  report  of  the  Judicial
Medical Officer referred to in subsection (1A) shall
be  produced  before  the  Magistrate  to  ensure  that
such person has not been subjected to torture before
serving such Order on such person.

(1C)  Where  the  report  issued  by  the  Judicial
Medical Officer under subsection (1A) reveals that
such  person  has  been  subjected  to  torture,  the
Magistrate  shall–

(a) make an appropriate order to provide necessary

medical treatment to such person; and

(b) where, at the time of serving on such person,
an order made under subsection (1), an order of
detention in respect of such person is also in
force,  make  an  order  to  change  the  place  of
detention of such person.

  (1D)  The  Magistrate  shall  also  direct  the
Inspector  General  of  Police  to  commence  an
investigation  into  the  alleged  torture  in  order  to
enable  the  Attorney-General  to  institute  criminal
proceedings  against  the  person  who  is  alleged  to
have committed the torture.”.

Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2022

5

(2) in  the  proviso  to  subsection  (3)  thereof,  by  the
substitution  for  the  words  “eighteen  months.”  of
the words “twelve months.”;

(3) by  the  repeal  of  subsection  (5)  thereof  and  the
substitution therefor of the following subsection:-

“(5)  An  Order  made  by  the  Minister  under
subsection (1) shall be final and shall not be called
in question in any proceedings or in any court of
law, save and except in proceedings under Article
126, 140 or 141 of the Constitution.”.

7. Section  14  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby

repealed.

Repeal  of
section  14  of  the
principal
enactment

8. Section  15  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  by the addition immediately after subsection (2)
thereof, of the following new subsection:-

Amendment  of
section  15  of  the
principal
enactment

“(3) Every trial under this Act shall be held on a day to
day basis, unless in the opinion of the court exceptional
circumstances  warrant  postponement  of 
the
commencement or continuation of trial, for reasons which
shall be recorded by court.”.

9. Section  15A  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  in  subsection  (1)  thereof,  by  the  substitution  for
the words and figures “section 19(a)”, of the word and figure
“section  19”.

Amendment  of
section  15A  of
the  principal
enactment

10. The  following  new  section  is  hereby  inserted
immediately  after  section  15A  of  the  principal  enactment
and shall have effect as section 15B of that enactment:-

Insertion  of  new
section  15B  in
the  principal
enactment

6

Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2022

“Grant  of
bail  to
persons  in
remand  or  in
detention

15B.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the
contrary  in  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  if  the
trial  against  a  person  remanded  or  detained
under  this  Act  has  not  commenced  after  the
expiration of twelve months, from the date of
arrest, the Court of Appeal may release such
person  on  bail,  upon  an  application  in  that
behalf, made by the suspect or an Attorney- at-
Law on his behalf:

Provided  however,  notwithstanding  the
provisions of subection (2) of section 15, the
High Court may in exceptional circumstances
release  the  suspect  on  bail  subject  to  such
conditions as the High Court may deem fit:

Provided further, where the trial against an
accused in respect of whom the indictment has
been  forwarded  and  filed  in  the  High  Court,
has  not  commenced  after  the  expiration  of
twelve months from the date of such filing, the
High Court may consider to release such person
on  bail,  upon  an  application  in  that  behalf
made by the accused or an Attorney- at-Law
on his behalf.”.

Replacement  of
section  19  of
the  principal
enactment

11. Section  19  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

“Provisions
of  any
written  law
relating  to
the  grant  of
bail  not  to
apply  to
persons
accused  of
any  offence
under  this
Act

19. Notwithstanding the provisions of any
other written law, every person convicted by
any court of any offence under this Act shall,
notwithstanding that he has lodged a petition
of appeal against his conviction or the sentence
imposed on him, be kept on remand until the
determination of the appeal:

Provided however, that the Court of Appeal
may  in  exceptional  circumstances  release  on
bail any such person subject to such conditions
as the Court of Appeal may deem fit .”.

Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2022

7

12. Section  26  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

“Protection
of  officers
&c.

26.  (1)  An  Order  made  or  direction  given
under  this  Act  may  be  questioned  in
proceedings under Article 126, 140 or 141 of
the  Constitution.

Replacement
of  section  26
of  the
principal
enactment

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection
(1), no suit, prosecution or other proceeding,
civil or criminal, shall lie against any officer or
person for any act or thing done in good faith
in pursuance of any Order made or direction
given under this Act.”.

13. Section  31  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby

amended as follows:-

(1) by  the  repeal  of  the  definition  of  the  expression

“newspaper”;

(2) by  the  repeal  of  the  definition  of  the  expression

“printing press”; and

(3) by  the  insertion  immediately  after  the  definition
“specified person” of the following definition:-

“ “torture” shall have the same meaning assigned
to  such  expression  under  the  Convention
Against Torture and other Cruel, Inhumane
or degrading Treatment or Punishment Act,
No.22 of 1994;”.

Amendment  of
section  31  of  the
principal
enactment

14.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

8

Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
(Amendment) Act, No. 12 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

