PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

MATARA  SEASON  ORGANIZATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 42 OF 2024

[Certified on 02nd of August, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 02, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs.24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Matara  Season  Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2024

1

[Certified on 02nd of August, 2024]

L.D.–O. (Inc. 11/2016)

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MATARA SEASON ORGANIZATION

WHEREAS  an  organization  called  and  known  as  the
“Matara Season Organization” has heretofore been established
in  Sri  Lanka    for  the  purpose  of  effectually  carrying  out its
objects  and  transacting  all    matters  connected  with  the  said
organization according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  organization  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to
grant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Matara  Season

Short  title

Organization (Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2024.

Incorporation  of
the  Matara
Season
Organization

2.

(1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Matara Season Organization and shall hereafter be admitted
as members of  the  body  corporate  hereby  constituted  shall
have  perpetual  succession  under  the  name and style of the
“Matara Season Organization” (hereinafter referred to as the

“body  corporate”),  and  by  that  name  may  sue  and  be  sued

with  full power and authority to have and use a common seal

and to alter the same at its pleasure.

2

Matara  Season  Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2024

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Service Organization within the meaning and for the
purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Service  Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions  of  that  Act  shall  apply  to  and  in  relation  to  the
management of the affairs of the body corporate.

General  objects
of  the  body
corporate

3. (1) Subject to the provisions of any other written law,
this Act and the rules made under section 7, the general objects
for  which  the  body  corporate  is  constituted  are  hereby
declared to be-

(a) with  the  approval  and  assistance  of  the  Ministry

assigned the subject of education–

(i) to  enhance  the  cultural  talents  of  school
children  and  university  students  by
organizing  talent  shows  and  evaluate  their
skills  and  award  certificates  to  successful
participants;

(ii) to conduct training programmes for the youth
to  enable  them  to  appreciate  and  practice
cultural and moral values, norms and ethics;

(iii) to organize leadership camps and workshops
for  senior  school  children  and  university
students to enhance their leadership qualities;

(iv) to organize programmes on sanitation, health,
sports  and  physical  exercise  to  enhance  the
physical  fitness  of  the  student  population;
and

(v) to  organize  and  conduct  educational  tours,
shramadana  campaigns  and  workshops  to
inculcate  feelings  and  patriotism  on  Sri
Lankan  heritage,  environment,  wildlife  and
people among the school children;

(b)

(c)

Matara  Season  Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2024

3

to assist and encourage organizations which assist
senior  citizens;

to  encourage  the  farmers  who  are  engaged  in
traditional  and  export  agriculture  by  conducting
awareness programmes on recent developments in
agriculture;  and

(d)

to provide necessary assistance to train unemployed
youth in self employment.

(2) In  the  implementation  of  the  objects  specified  in
subsection  (1),  the  body  corporate  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation shall be carried out without any distinction
based on race, religion, language, caste, sex, political opinion,
place of birth or any of such grounds.

4. The  objects  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  carried
out in accordance with written law and in such manner so as
not  to  create  any  conflict  between  the  work  of  the  body
corporate  and  any  work  being  carried  out  simultaneously
by any Ministry or Department of  the Government or of any
Provincial  Council  or  any  local  authority  or  public
corporation.

5. 

(1) Subject to the provisions of any other written law,
this Act, and the rules made under section 7, the management
and administration of the affairs of the body corporate shall
be carried out by a Committee of  Management (hereinafter
referred to as the “Committee”) consisting of such number of
office bearers as may be specified by rules made under section
7 and in such a manner as may be specified therein.

(2) (a) The members of the Committee of Management of
the  Matara  Season  Organization  holding  office  on  the  day
immediately  preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this

Body  corporate
to  ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of  Ministry
or  Department  of
the  Government,
or  a  Provincial
Council  or  any
local  authority  or
public
corporation

Management  of
affairs  of  the
body  corporate

4

Matara  Season  Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2024

Act  shall,  subject    to  the  rules  made  under  paragraph  (b),
function  as  the  Interim  Committee  of  the  body  corporate
until the first Committee is appointed or elected within the
period specified in paragraph (d) and in the manner provided
for by rules made under section 7.

(b)  Subject to the provisions of subsections (2), (3), (4),
and  (5)  of  section  7,  the  Interim  Committee  of  the  body
corporate shall have the power to make rules for the interim
administration  of  the  body  corporate  not  inconsistent  with
the provisions of this Act or any other written law.

(c)  Any decision of the Interim Committee shall be taken

by the majority of its members present at any meeting.

(d)  The first Committee of the body corporate shall be
appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Committee including the
patrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a period
of three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisor
shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapse
of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Committee shall, having regard to the rules of the
body corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term of
office of the member whom he succeeds.

Matara  Season  Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2024

5

6. Subject to the provisions of any other written law,
this  Act  and  the  rules  made  under  section  7,  the  body
corporate shall have the power to do, perform and execute
the following acts for the attainment of the objects of the
body  corporate:–

Powers  of  the
body  corporate

(a)

(b)

to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwise
obtain  lands  or  buildings  which  may  be  required
for the purposes of the body corporate and to deal
with or dispose of the same as determined by the
Committee with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;

to  enter  into  and  perform  or  carry  out,  whether
directly or through any officer or agent authorized
in  that  behalf  by  the  body  corporate,  all  such
contracts or agreements as may be necessary for the
attainment of the objects or the exercise of the powers
of the body corporate;

(c)

to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind for the attainment of the objects of the body
corporate:

Provided  that,  the  Committee  shall  obtain  the
prior written approval of the Department of External
Resources in respect of all foreign funds including
grants,  gifts  or  donations  received  by  or  made  to
the body corporate;

(d)

subject to the provisions of the proviso to paragraph
(c),  to  make,  draw,  accept,  discount,  endorse,
negotiate,  buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,
cheques,  promissory  notes  and  other  negotiable
instruments and to open, operate, maintain and close
accouts in any bank;

6

Matara  Season  Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2024

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

(j)

(k)

to  invest  any  funds  that  are  not  immediately
required for the purposes of the body corporate, in
such manner as the Committee may determine;

to  undertake,  accept,  execute,  perform  and
administer any lawful trust having objects similar
to  the  body  corporate  or  any  real  or  personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;

to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of  officers  and  other  employees  of  the  body
corporate  and  exercise  disciplinary  control  over
them and to pay them such salaries, allowances and
gratuities  as  may  be  determined  by  the  body
corporate in terms of the rules made under section 7
of the Act;

to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a  view  to  promoting  the  objectives  of  the  body
corporate;

to  liaise  and  co-ordinate  with  other  local  and
foreign  institutions  having  similar  objects  to  that
of the body corporate;

to  train  personnel  in  Sri  Lanka  or  abroad  for  the
purposes of the body corporate; and

to do such things as are authorised by this Act for
the  achievement  of  the  objects  of  the  body
corporate.

Rules  of  the
body  corporate

7.

(1) The body corporate shall, from time to time, at
any general meeting of the body corporate and by a majority
of not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting,
make rules which are not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act, or any other written law, for the following matters:-

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

Matara  Season  Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2024

7

the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by the members;

the election of office bearers of the Committee and
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;

the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions  and  duties,  dismissal  or  termination  of
services,  the  exercise  of  disciplinary  control  and
the payment of salaries, allowances and gratuities
of the various officers and other employees of the
body  corporate;

the  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  summoning
and holding of meetings of the body corporate and
of the Committee and for the  issuance of notices
and agenda of such meetings, the quorum and the
conduct of business thereat;

the  qualifications  and  disqualifications  to  be  a
member of the body corporate and the Committee;

the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate, detailing of all contracts and
agreements entered into by it, custody of its funds
and the maintenance and audit of its accounts;

the procedure for governing, the manner of liaising,
coordinating and contracting with other local and
foreign  institutions  having  objects  similar  to  that
of the body corporate; and

(h) generally the management of the affairs of the body
corporate, the accomplishment of its’ objects and
dissolution of the body corporate.

8

Matara  Season  Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2024

(2)  Any  rule  made  by  the  body  corporate  may  be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like  meeting
and in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of
this  section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1) of this section
and paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 5 of this Act,
shall be published in the Gazette within three months upon
making of such rules and shall come into effect on the date
of publication thereof.

(4) Every rule made by the body corporate shall within
three months of its publication in the  Gazette,  be  brought
before  parliament  for  approval.  Any  rule,  which  is  not  so
approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of  such  disapproval,  but  without  prejudice  to  anything
previously  done  thereunder.

(5) Notification  of  the  date  on  which  any  such  rule  is
deemed  to  be  so  rescinded  under  subsection  (4)  shall  be
published in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all times

be subject to the rules of the body corporate.

Register  of
Members

8. The Committee shall maintain a register of members
in  which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members of the body corporate shall be inscribed .

Fund  of  the
body  corporate

9.

(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) Subject to the provisions of the proviso to paragraph
(c) of section 6, all moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,
donations,  subscriptions,  contributions,  fees  or  grants  for
and on account of the body corporate shall, subject to the
provisions of paragraph (c) of section 6, be deposited in one
or more banks approved by the Committee to the credit of
the body corporate.

Matara  Season  Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2024

9

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums of
money as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by
the  body  corporate  in  the  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.

(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
Auditing

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  the  Auditor  General  or  a  qualified  auditor
appointed by the Auditor General in terms of the provisions
of Article 154 of the Constitution, and be certified by the
Auditor General or a qualified auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section “a qualified auditor”

means–

(a)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of  Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  of  any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or

(b)

a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as  an  Accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
Institute.

Annual  Report

Debts  due  by
and  payable  to
the  Matara
Season
Organization

Body  corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

10

Matara  Season  Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2024

11.

(1)  The  Committee  shall  prepare  a  report  of  the
activities of the body corporate for each financial year and
submit  such  report  together  with  the  audited  statement  of
accounts  certified  by  the  Auditor-General  or  a  qualified
auditor  appointed  by  the  Auditor  General,  referred  to  in
section  10  and  the  details  of  all  contracts  and  agreements
entered into by the body corporate and the rules of the body
corporate  made  under  section  7,  to  the  Secretary  of  the
Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of Education
and  to  the  Registrar  of  Voluntary  Social  Service
Organizations appointed under the Voluntary Social Service
Organizations (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of
1980,  before  the  expiration  of  six  months  of  the  year
succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreign
and local moneys received by the body corporate during the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).

12. All  debts  and  liabilities  of  the  Matara  Season
Organization existing on the day immediately preceding the
date of commencement of this Act, shall be paid by the body
corporate  hereby  constituted  and  all  debts  due  to  and
subscriptions and contributions payable to the Matara Season
Organization on that day shall be paid to the body corporate
for the purposes of this Act.

13. Subject to the provisions of any other written law, of
this Act and the rules made under section 7, the body corporate
shall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,
movable or immovable, which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition
or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the body
corporate for the purpose of this Act and subject to the rules
of the body corporate made under section 7, with  power to
sell, mortgage, lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose of the
same.

Application  of
moneys  and
property

Seal  of  the  body
corporate

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

Matara  Season  Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2024

11

14. Subject to the provisions of any other written law,
of this Act and the rules made under section 7, the moneys
and property of the body corporate however derived shall
be  applied  solely  towards  the  promotion  of  the  objects  of
the body corporate and no portion thereof shall be paid or
transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend, bonus
or profit or otherwise howsoever to the members of the body
corporate.

15.

(1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  any  other  written
law, the seal of the  body corporate shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two members
of the Committee, who shall sign their names to the instrument
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Committee as may be decided by
the Committee.

16.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  body  corporate
there  remains  after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be  distributed  among  the  members  of  the  body  corporate,
but  shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  any  other  appropriate
institution  having  objects  similar  to  those  of  the  body
corporate, and which is by the rules thereof,  prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its members.

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  subsection  (1),  the  appropriate
institution  to  which  any  property  remains  after  the
satisfaction  of  all  the  debts  and  liabilities  of  the  body
corporate  to  be  transferred  shall  be  determined  by  the
members  of  the  body  corporate  with  the  approval  of  the
Registrar  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Service  Organizations

12

Matara  Season  Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2024

appointed  under  Voluntary  Social  Service  Organizations
(Registration  and  Supervision)  Act,  No.  31  of  1980
immediately before the dissolution at a general meeting by
the majority of votes of the members present.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic

17. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
any other body corporate.

Interpretation

18. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

“bank”  means  a  bank  licensed  under  the
provisions  of the Banking Act, No.30 of
1988;  and

“written  law”  shall  have  the  same  meaning
assigned  to  such  expression  in  the
Constitution  of  the  Democratic  Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case  of
inconsistency

19.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Matara  Season  Organization
(Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2024

13

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

