PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

————————

SRI LANKA ASSOCIATION FOR FISHERIES AND
AQUATIC  RESOURCES  (INCORPORATION)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries
and Aquatic Resources

————————

Presented in Parliament by Hon.(Dr.) Nalaka Godahewa, M.P.
for Gampaha District on 25th of April, 2024

(Published in the Gazette on April 01, 2024)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

[Bill No. 252]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI LANKA ASSOCIATION FOR FISHERIES
AND AQUATIC RESOURCES

WHEREAS  an  Association  called  and  known  as  the
“Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and Aquatic Resources”
has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all matters
connected  with  the  said  association  according  to  the  rules
agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Association  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  expedient  to  grant  the  said
application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

5

10

15

1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Association
for  Fisheries  and  Aquatic  Resources  (Incorporation)
Act, No.    of 2024.

Short  title.

Incorporation
of  the  Sri
Lanka
Association
for  Fisheries
and  Aquatic
Resources

20

25

2. From and after the date of  commencement of this Act,
such  and  so  many  persons  as  now  are  members  of  the  Sri
Lanka  Association  for  Fisheries  and  Aquatic  Resources
(hereinafter referred to as the “Association”) or shall hereafter
be  admitted  as  members  of  the  Association  hereby
constituted,  shall  be  a  body  corporate  with  perpetual
succession,  under  the  name  and  style  of  the  “Sri  Lanka
Association for Fisheries and Aquatic Resources” (hereinafter
referred to as the “body corporate” ) and by that name may
sue and be sued, in all Courts with full power and authority
to have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its
pleasure.

Body
corporate
operates  as  a
not-for-profit
Organization

The  general
objects  of  the
body
corporate

2

Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)

3. The body corporate shall operates exclusively as a not-
for-profit Organization and it is solely for the benefit of the
Association and its members.

4. (1) The general objects for which the body corporate is

5

constituted are hereby declared to be:–

(a)

to  promote  effective  interaction  and  co-operation
among those involved in research and development
activities  in  fisheries  and  aquatic  resources  in
Sri Lanka;

10

(b)

to liaise and co-operate with Government and Non-
Government  Organizations  concerned  in  such
activities in Sri Lanka;

(c)

to  create  and  propagate  an  awareness  of  the
importance  and  the  ways  of  sound  utilization,
cultivation,  conservation  and  development  of
aquatic resources of Sri Lanka;

15

(d)

to serve as a Forum for Scientists and other personnel
to discuss issues and policies to development and
conservation of aquatic resources;

20

(e)

to  establish  liaison  with  other  Scientific
Organizations;  and

(f)

to  facilitate  training  programmes  on  fisheries  and
aquatic resources.

25

(2)  In  the  implementation  of  the  objects  specified  in
subsection  (1)  the  corporate  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation  shall  be  carried  out  without  any
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex,
political opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.

Body
corporate  to
ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of
Ministry  or
Department
of  the
Government
or  Province

Management
of  the  Affairs
of  the  body
corporate

Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)

3

5. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out
in such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the body corporate and any work being carried out
simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or any Provincial Council.

5

6.

(1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  the  body
corporate  shall  be  carried  out  by  a  Executive  Committee
(hereinafter referred to as “the Committee” consisting of such
number  of  office  bearers  as  may  be  specified  by  the  rules
made under Section 8.

(2) (a) The Executive Committee of the Association that
holds office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement  of  this  Act,  shall  function  as  the  Interim
Committee of the body corporate until the first Committee is
appointed  or  elected  in  the  manner  provided  for  by  rules
made under Section 8.

(b)  The  first  Committee  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be
appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

(3)  (a)  Every  office  bearer  of  the  Committee,  shall  be
appointed or elected for a period of one year and any such
office bearer shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election
after lapse of the said period of one year.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Committee shall having regard to the rules of the
Association, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term of
office of the member whom he succeeds.

10

15

20

25

30

4

Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)

7. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  any  other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary or
desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including the
power:-

Powers  of  the
body
corporate

(a) to  purchase,  acquire  rent,  construct,  renovate  and
otherwise  obtain  lands  or  buildings  which  may  be
required for the purpose of the body corporate and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of the
body  corporate;

(b) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,

in cash or kind with or without security:

Provided  that,  the  Committee  shall  obtain  the
prior written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the  Minister assigned
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign grants,
gifts or donations made to the body corporate;

(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory  notes  and  other  negotiable  instruments
and to open, operate and close accounts in any banks;

(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the body corporate in such manner as the
Committee may determine;

(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and administer
any lawful trust or any real or personal property with
a  view  to  promoting  the  objects  of  the  body
corporate;

5

10

15

20

25

Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)

5

(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of  officers  and  servants  of  the  body  corporate  and
exercise  disciplinary  control  over  them  and  to  pay
them  such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the body corporate;

(g) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects
of the body corporate.

8. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less than
two thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law, for all or any of the following matters:—

Rules  of  the
Body
corporate

(a) the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members and
fees payable by members ;

(b) the  election  of  office  bearers  of  the  Committee  or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and  the  powers,  duties  and  functions  of  the  office
bearers;

(c) the  terms  and  conditions  of  appointment,  powers,
functions and duties of the various officers, agents
and servants of the body corporate;

(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Committee, or any sub-
committee  thereof,  notices  and  agenda  of  such
meetings,  the  quorum  and  the  conduct  of  business
thereat;

5

10

15

20

25

(e) the qualification and disqualification to be members

30

of the Committee and the body corporate;

6

Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)

(f) the administration and management of the property

of the body corporate; and

(g) the management of the affairs of the body corporate
and the accomplishment of its' objects and dissolution
of the body corporate.

5

(2) The rules made by the body corporate may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the body corporate shall at all time be

10

subject to rules of the body corporate.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be published

in the Government Gazette.

9.  The Committee shall maintain a register of members
in  which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members be inscribed.

15

Register  of
members

10.  (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests, donations,
subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for an account of
the body corporate shall be deposited in one or more Banks
approved by the Committee to the credit of the Association.

20

Fund  of  the
body
corporate

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
as  are  required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under the Act.

25

11.

(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
the  Auditing

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all
other transactions of the body corporate.

Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)

7

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
by a qualified auditor appointed by Auditor General in terms
of Article 154 of the Constitution.

(4)  For  the  purpose  of  this  section  “qualified  auditor”

5

means–

(a)

(b)

an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute; or

a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners,
of  which  being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law possesses a certificate
to practice as Accountant issued by the Council of
such Institute.

10

15

12.

(1)  The  Committee  shall  prepare  a  report  of  the
activities of the body corporate for each financial year and
submit  such  report  together  with  the  audited  statement  of
accounts to the membership at the Annual General Meeting.

20

Annual
Report

(2)  A  separate  account  relating  to  the  foreign  and  local
moneys received by the body corporate during the financial
year  shall  be  attached  to  the  report  referred  to  in
subsection (1).

25

30

13.  All debts and liabilities of the Association  existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the body corporate hereby constituted, and
all debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions  payable
to  the  Association  on  that  day  shall  be  paid  to  the  body
corporate for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Association

8

Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)

14. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the body corporate
shall be able and capable in law, to take and hold any property
movable or immovable which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grants, gifts, testamentary dispositions
or otherwise, and all such property shall be  held by the body
corporate for the purposes of this Act, and subject to the rules
of the body corporate made under section 8, with power to
sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the
same.

Body
corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

15.    The  moneys  and  property  of  the  body  corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion of the objects of the body corporate and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or profit to the members of the body
corporate.

Application
of  money
and  property

16. (1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members of the Committee who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
body
corporate

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Committee as may be decided by
such Committee.

17.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  body  corporate
there  remains  after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities, and property whatsoever, such property shall not
be  distributed  among  the  members  of  the  body  corporate,
but  shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  any  other  institution
having objects similar to those of the body corporate, and
which is by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its members.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

5

10

15

20

25

30

Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)

9

(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determinded by the members of the body
corporate  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at  a  general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members prsent.

5

18. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or corporate.

19. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil Texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Saving  of  the
Rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistancy

10

Sri Lanka Association for Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (Incorporation)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

