PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

INSTITUTE  OF  CHARTERED  SHIPBROKERS
OF  SRI  LANKA  (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  No.  34  OF  2024

[Certified on 19th of  June, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 20, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

1

[Certified on 19th of June, 2024]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 1/2022

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED SHIPBROKERS
OF SRI LANKA

WHEREAS an Institute called and known as the “Institute of
Chartered  Shipbrokers  of  Sri  Lanka”  has  heretofore  been
established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying
out its objects and transacting all matters connected  with the
said Institute according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was established and has applied to be incorporated
and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to  grant  the  said
application:

BE it,  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Institute  of  Chartered
Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of  2024.

Short  title

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of  the Institute
of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to
as the “Institute”) and shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the body  corporate hereby constituted, shall  have  perpetual
succession  under  the  name  and  style  of    the  “Institute  of
Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred to as
the  “body corporate”), and by that name may sue and be sued
with full power and authority to have, and  use a common seal
and to alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporation  of
the  Institute  of
Chartered
Shipbrokers  of
Sri  Lanka

2

Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

General  objects
of  the  body
corporate

3. (1) The general objects for which the body corporate

is constituted are hereby declared to be-

(a) to  promote  professionalism  in  the  shipping  arena
among  the  members  of  the  body  corporate  by
providing them training opportunities in the shipping
business;

(b) to create awareness among persons involved in the
ship broking business, of the advantage of employing
well-educated staff having a proper understanding of
the shipping business, in such field;

(c) to  hold  seminars  and  workshops  for  the  benefit  of
those employed in the ship broking business;

(d) to  provide  study  courses  relevant  to  the  qualifying
examinations for membership of the body corporate;

(e) to  promote  understanding  and  co-operation  with
institutions having objects similar to those of the body
corporate within and outside Sri Lanka; and

(f) to assist the relevant authorities with the consent of

such  authorities–

(i)

(ii)

to  provide  training  in  accordance  with
accepted principles of the shipping business
to  persons  who  desire  to  pursue  a  career  in
such business;

to conduct or provide to conduct courses of
study and hold examinations in collaboration
with  recognized  educational  institutions  in
the field of shipping business; and

(iii)

to  undertake,  promote  and  facilitate  studies
in the field of shipping business,

subject to any applicable written law, to the extent permitted
by such law.

Body  corporate
to  ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of  Ministry
or  Department  of
the  Government,
or  Provincial
Council,  Local
Authority  or
public
corporation

Management  of
the  affairs  of  the
body  corporate

Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

3

(2)  In  the  implementation  of  the  objects  specified  in
subsection  (1),  the  body  corporate  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation shall be carried out without any distinction
based  on  race,  religion,  language,  caste,  gender,  political
opinion, place of birth or such other grounds.

4. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out
in such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the body corporate and any work being carried out
simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government, or of any Provincial Council, Local Authority
or public corporation.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, and the rules
made under section 7, the management and administration
of the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by a
Board of Management (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”)
consisting of such number of office bearers as may be specified
by the rules made under section 7.

(2) (a) The Board of the Institute holding office on the day
immediately  preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this
Act  shall,  subject  to  the  rules  made  under  paragraph  (b),
function as an Interim Board of the body corporate until the
first Board is appointed or elected in the manner provided for
by rules made under section 7.

(b) Subject to the provisions of section 7, the Interim Board
shall  have  the  power  to  make  rules  for  the  interim
administration of the body corporate, not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act or any other written law.

(c)  Any decision of the Interim Board shall be taken by

the majority of its members present at such meeting.

4

Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

(d)  The first Board of the body corporate shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.

(3)  (a)  Every  office  bearer  of  the  Board  including  the
patrons and advisers shall be appointed or elected for a period
of three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisor
shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapse
of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Board shall, having regard to the rules of the body
corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term of
office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  any  other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects
of  the  body  corporate  or  any  one  of  them,  including  the
power-

(a)

(b)

to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwise
obtain lands or buildings, which may by required
for the purposes of the body corporate and to deal
with or dispose of the same as may be determined
by the Board with a view to promoting the objects
of the body corporate;

to  enter  into  and  perform  or  carry  out,  whether
directly or through any officer or agent authorized
in  that  behalf  by  the  body  corporate,  all  such
contracts or agreements as may be necessary for the
attainment  of  the  objects  or  the  exercise  of  the
powers of the body corporate;

Powers  of  the
body  corporate

Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

5

(c)

to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind for the attainment of the objects of the body
corporate:

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the prior
written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources in respect of all foreign grants, gifts or
donations made to the body corporate;

to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts
in any bank;

to  invest  any  funds  that  are  not  immediately
required for the purposes of the body corporate, in
such manner as the Board may determine;

to  undertake,  accept,  execute,  perform  and
administer any lawful trust having objects similar
to those of the body corporate or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;

to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the body corporate and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be  determined  by  the  body  corporate  in  terms  of
the rules made under section 7 of the Act;

(h)

to  determine  and  levy  fees,  subscriptions  and
contributions  in  respect  of  membership  and
admission to membership of the body corporate;

6

Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

(i)

(j)

(k)

to determine and levy fees, in respect of admission
to  courses  of  study  and  examinations  conducted
by or on behalf of the body corporate in accordance
with the consent of relevant authorities;

to compile a Code of Ethics to be followed by the
members  of  the  body  corporate  and  secure
adherence thereto by such members;

to  organize  and  conduct  conferences,  seminars,
forums,  workshops  and  meetings  relating  to
shipping business in Sri Lanka and abroad with a
view  to  promoting  the  objectives  of  the  body
corporate;

(l) to  establish,  promote,  foster  and  maintain  good
relations  with  other  local  and  foreign  institutions
having  objects similar to those of the body corporate;

(m) to train officers and servants in Sri Lanka or abroad

for the purposes of the body corporate;

(n) to assess the eligibility of candidates for admission

to various grades of membership; and

(o) generallly, to do all such acts and things authorized
by this Act for the achievement of the objects of the
body  corporate.

Rules  of  the
body  corporate

7. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the body corporate and by
a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and  voting,  to  make  rules,  not  inconsistent  with  the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:-

Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

7

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by the members and maintenance
of a register of members;

the  election  of  office  bearers  of  the  Board  or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;

the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties of various officers, agents and
servants of the body corporate;

the  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  summoning
and holding of meetings of the body corporate and
of the Board, or any sub-committee thereof, notices
and agenda of such meetings, the quorum  and the
conduct of business thereat;

(e)

the  qualifications  and  disqualifications  to  be  a
member of the Board and the body corporate; and

(f) generally, the management of the affairs of the body
corporate  and  the  accomplishment  of  its’  objects
and dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be published
in the Gazette and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

8

Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

(4) Every rule made by the body corporate shall, within
three months after its publication in the Gazette be brought
before  Parliament  for  approval.  Any  rule  which  is  not  so
approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of  such  disapproval  but  without  prejudice  to  anything
previously  done  thereunder.

(5)  Notification  of  the  date  on  which  any  such  rule  is
deemed  to  be  so  rescinded  under  subsection  (4)  shall  be
published in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all times

be subject to the rules of the body corporate.

Register  of
members

8. The  Board  shall  maintain  a  register  of  members  in
which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members shall be inscribed.

Fund  of  the
body  corporate

9. (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2)  All  moneys    received  by  way  of  gifts,  bequests,
subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for and on account
of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  deposited  in  one  or  more
banks  approved  by  the  Board  to  the  credit  of  the  body
corporate,  subject  to  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (c)  of
section 6.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums of
money as are  required to defray any expenditure incurred
by  the  body  corporate  in  the  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of the powers, duties and functions under the Act.

Accounts  and
Auditing

10. (1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the body corporate.

Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

9

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  a  qualified  auditor  and  be  certified  by  such
qualified  auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section, “qualified auditor”

means-

(a)

(b)

an  individual  who,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or  of  any  other  Institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant,  issued  by    the  Council  of  such
Institute; or

a  firm  of  Accountants,  each  of  the  resident
partners of which, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued
by the Council of such Institute.

11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of  the  body  corporate  for  each  financial  year  and  submit
such report together with the audited statement of accounts
certified  by  a  qualified  auditor  to  the  Secretary  to  the
Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of Ports and
Shipping, and to the Registrar of Voluntary Social Services
Organization appointed under the Voluntary Social Services
Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of
1980  before  the  expiration  of  six  months  of  the  year
succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreign
and  local  moneys  received  by  the  body  corporate,  during
the financial year shall be attached to the report referred to
in subsection (1).

Annual  Report

Debts  due  by
and  payable  to
the  Institute

Body  corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

Application  of
moneys  and
property

10

Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

12. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  body  corporate  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to  and  subscriptions  and
contributions  payable  to  the  Institute  on  that  day  shall  be
paid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

13. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall be able and capable in
law to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant,  gift,  testamentary  disposition  or  otherwise,  and  all
such  property  shall  be  held  by  the  body  corporate  for  the
purpose  of  this  Act  and  subject  to  the  rules  of  the  body
corporate made under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose of the same.

14. The  moneys  and  property  of  the  body  corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion  of    the  objects  of  the  body  corporate  and  no
portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  transferred  directly  or
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwise
howsoever to the members of the body corporate.

Seal  of  the  body
corporate

15. (1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members  of  the  Board  who  shall  sign  their  names  to  the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody

of an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by the

Board.

Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

11

16. For  the  purpose  of  discharging  the  debts  and
liabilities of the body corporate or for any other purpose, a
member of the body corporate shall not be liable to make
any contribution exceeding the amount of such subscription
as may be due from such person to the body corporate.

Limitation  of
liability  of
members

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

17. (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the body corporate, but
shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  any  other  appropriate
institution  having  objects  similar  to  those  of  the  body
corporate, and which is by the rules thereof, prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its members.

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  subsection  (1)  the  appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate with the approval of the Secretary to the Ministry
of the Minister assigned the subject of Ports and Shipping
and  the  Registrar  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Services
Organization appointed under the Voluntary Social Services
Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of
1980,  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at  a  general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

18. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires–

Interpretation

“bank” means a bank licensed under the provisions

of the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;

“shipbroking business” means a professional service
carried  out  by  companies  and  individuals  in
the industry of shipping business;

12

Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

“shipping business” includes ship sale and purchase,
ship management, dry cargo chartering, tanker
chartering, port agency, liner trades, logistics
and  multimodal  transport,  port  and  terminal
management,  ship  finance,  shipping  law,
insurance, bunkering and ship classification;

“law” shall have the same meaning assigned to such

expression  in  the  Constitution;

“local  authority”  means  any  Municipal  Council,
Urban  Council  or  Pradeshiya  Sabha  and
includes  any  authority  created  or  established
by, or under, any law to exercise, perform or
discharge  the  powers,  duties  and  functions
corresponding  to  or  similar  to  the  powers,
duties  and  functions  exercised,  performed  or
discharged by any such Council or Sabha;

“public corporation” means any corporation, board
or other body which was or is established by or
under  any  written  law  other  than  the
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007, with funds or
capital  wholly  or  partly  provided  by  the
Government by way of grant, loan or otherwise;
and

“written  law”  means  any  law  and  subordinate
legislation  including  statutes  made  by  a
Provincial Council and regulations made under
such statutes, Orders, Proclamations, Rules, By-
Laws and Regulations made or issued by any
body or person having power or authority under
any law to make or issue the same.

Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

13

19. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.

20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case  of
inconsistency

14

Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

