PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

——————

CHITHTHA  ADVANCED  PSYCHOLOGICAL  STUDIES
OPEN INSTITUTE OF SRI LANKA
(INCORPORATION)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies
Open Institute of Sri Lanka

——————

Presented by the  Hon. Buddhika Pathirana,  M.P.
for Matara District  on  08th of February, 2022

(Published in the Gazette on January 31, 2022)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

——————

[Bill No. 105]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Chiththa  Advanced  Psychological  Studies
Open Institute of Sri Lnaka (Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE CHITHTHA ADVANCED PSYCHOLOGICAL
STUDIES OPEN INSTITUTE OF SRI LANKA

WHEREAS an Institute called and known as the “Chiththa
Advanced psychological Studies Open Institute of Sri Lanka”
has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all matters
connected with the said Institute according to the rules agreed
to by its members:

Preamble

AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was established, and has applied to be incorporated
and it will be expedient to grant the said application:

BE it  therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

5

10

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Chiththa  Advanced
Psychological  Studies  Open  Institute  of  Sri  Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No.      of  2022.

15

Short  title

2. From  and  after  the  date  of  commencement  of  this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Chiththa Advanced Psychological Studies Open Institute of
Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”) or shall
hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted,  shall  be  a  body  corporate  with  perpetual
succession,  under  the  name  and  style  of  the  “Chiththa
Advanced Psychological Studies Open Institute of Sri Lanka”
(hereinafter referred to as the “body corporate”) and by that
name may sue and be sued in all Courts with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the same
at its pleasure.

20

25

3.

(1) The general objects for which the Corporation is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

30

(a) to  established  proper  organization  for  the

psychological  consultants;

Incorporation
of  the
Chiththa
Advanced
Psychological
Studies  Open
Institute  of
Sri  Lanka

The  General
objects  of  the
body
corporate

2

Chiththa  Advanced  Psychological  Studies
Open Institute of Sri Lnaka (Incorporation)

(b) to promote and develop psychological studies and
to  formulate  standards  of  the  psychological
consultant and issuing the same ;

(c) to produce  psychological consultants in the country
aiming  at  providing  necessary    psychological
treatment among the people of the country who are
ailing  with    psychological  disorders  and  to  uplife
the  psychological  health;

(d) to offer  psychological studies in the main official
languages of the country so as to produce a society
of efficient psychologists who could provide their
consultancy  services  in  mother  languages  within
Sri Lanka;

(e) to offer education and proper training to the students
of  the  Institution  aiming  at  producing  qualified
psychological  consultants  and  to  grant  certificate
through  the  Chiththa  Advanced  psychological
Studies  Open  Institute  of  Sri  Lanka  and  monitor
them;

(f) to offer Chiththa Certified Psychological Counsellor
of  Sri  Lanka  (CCPCSL)  through  the  Council  of
Chiththa  Psychological  Counsellors’  to  those
students  who  had  obtained  certificate  having
completed the proper studies and the final medical
trainings;

(g) to act vigilantly about the code of discipline of the
licensed  members  and  to  take  disciplinary  action
against, or cancel the membership of the licensed
holder those who violate the code of discipline;

(h) to offer psychological study courses recognized by
the  local  and  foreign  countries  to  the  level  of
certificate level course in the field of higher national
diploma studies not less than the level of bachelor
degree;

5

10

15

20

25

30

Chiththa  Advanced  Psychological  Studies
Open Institute of Sri Lnaka (Incorporation)

3

(i) to conduct seminars and workshop twice a year to
those  licensed  members  in  order  to  improve  the
knowledge;

(j) to  organize  pathways  of  gaining  post  graduations
eligibility  to  the  members  of  their  professional
development of bachelor/master degree holders in
the field of psychological studies;

(k) to  run  both  print  and  electronic  media  library  of
books,  news  papers  and  magazines  etc.  to  further
studies of students following psychological studies,
licensed members and others; and to motivate the
students and members to publish articles in the field
of subject matter in both medias;

(l) to  charge  a  reasonable  monthly  fee  for  the
registration  of  students  from  certificate  course  to
higher national diploma and an annual fee from the
licensed  membership  holders  to  continue  their
membership and to charge a fee for any other services
obtained from the institute;

(m) to award scholarship and trophies to those students
who  show  their  educational  talents  with  courage
and  dedication;

(n) to open sub branches of institution and managing

and  controlling  them;

(o) to control all kinds of books and documents of print
and electronic media under the Intellectual Property
Act,  as  well  as  preserving  the  movable  and
immovable property of the Institute;

(p) the  pioneer  chairman  of  the  Institute  be  able  to
appoint any officers and employees he think deem
fit and pay off their wages; as well as to appiont a
trustworthy  officer  in  place  of  him  while  he  is  in
abroad or not in good health;

5

10

15

20

25

30

4

Chiththa  Advanced  Psychological  Studies
Open Institute of Sri Lnaka (Incorporation)

(q) a new director, after the retirement of the chairman
or after his demise be appointed by a proper vote
and such director shall have the all powers enjoyed
by the pioneer chairman of the institurte;

(r) any  person  appointed  to  serve    the  institute  in
various  capscity  be  able  to  serve  for  a  term  of
5 years, and the institute has the power to publich
and declare through print media of his non-existence
in  the  institute  and  bear  no  responsibilities  in  the
institute any more about such personnel who retire
before the completion of 5 years of term;

(s) to Chithatha Advanced Psychological Studies Open
Institute of Sri Lanka be fully prepared to co-operate
with  the  Internal  and  International  universities  of
seminars, lecturs and workshop.

(2)  In  the  implementation  of  the  objects  specified  in
subsection  (1)  the  body  corporate  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation  shall  be  carried  out  without  any
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex,
political opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.

4. The  objects  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  carried
out in such manner so as not to create any conflict between
the work of the body corporate an any work being carried
out  simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or any Provincial Council.

5.

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act management
of the affairs of the body corporation shall be carrried out by
a  Board  of  Management  (hereinafter  referred  to  as
“the Board”) consisting of such number of office bearers as
may be specified by the rules made under section 7.

Body
corporate  to
ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of
Ministry  or
Department
of  the  Central
Governemt
or  Province
Management
of  the  affairs
of  the  body
corporate

5

10

15

20

25

30

Chiththa  Advanced  Psychological  Studies
Open Institute of Sri Lnaka (Incorporation)

5

(2) (a) The Board of Management of the foundation that
holds office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Board of
the  body  corporate  until  the  first  Board  is  appointed  or
elected  in  the  manner  provided  for  by  rules  made  under
section 7.

(b) The first Board of the body corporate shall be apointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.

(3)  (a)  Every  office  bearer  of  the  Board  including  the
patrons  and  advisors,  shall  be  appointed  or  elected  for  a
period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or
advisor  shall  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  or  re-election
after lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of the body
corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

5

10

15

20

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary
or desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including
the powe—

Powers  of  the
body
corporate

(a)

to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required for the purpose of the body corporate and
to deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;

25

30

6

Chiththa  Advanced  Psychological  Studies
Open Institute of Sri Lnaka (Incorporation)

5

10

15

(b) to  raise  funds  and  receive  grants,  gifts  or
donanation, in cash or kind with or without security;

Provided that the Body shall obtain prior written
approval of the Department of External Resources
of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject
of Finance, in respect of all foreign grants, gifts or
donations made to the body corporate.

(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promossory notes and othe negotiable instruments
and  to  open,  operate  and  close  accounts  in  any
banks;

(d)

(e)

invest any funds not immediately required for the
purpose of the body corporate in such manner as
the Board may determine;

to  undertake,  accept,  execute,  perform  and
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;

20

(f)

to appoint, employ dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the body corporate and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the body corporate;

25

(g)

to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects
of the body corporate.

7.

(1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—

Rules  of  the
body
corporate

(a) the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal,  expulsion  or  resignation  of  members
and fees payable by  members;

30

35

Chiththa  Advanced  Psychological  Studies
Open Institute of Sri Lnaka (Incorporation)

7

(b) the election of the office-bearers of the Board  or
vacation of or removal from office of office-bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;

(c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties of the various officers, agents
and servants of the body corporate;

(d) the procedure to be follwed at and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board, or any sub
committee  thereof,  notices  and  agenda  of  such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;

(e) the  qualification  and  disqualification  to  be  a
members of the Board and the body corporate;

5

10

15

(f) the administration and management of the property

of the body corporate; and

(g) the management of the affairs of the body corporate,
and  the  accomplishment  of  its’  objects  and
dissolution of the body corporate.

20

(2)  The  rule  made  by  the  body  corporation  may  be
amended, altered, added or rescinded at a like meeting and
in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the body corporate shall at all time be

subject to the rules of the body corporate.

25

(4) The rules made under this section shall be published

in the Government Gazette.

8. The  Board  shall  maintain  a  register  of  members  in
which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members be inscribed.

Register  of
member

8

Chiththa  Advanced  Psychological  Studies
Open Institute of Sri Lnaka (Incorporation)

9.

(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,
subsctiption, contribution, fees or grants for an account of
the body corporate shall be deposited in one or more Banks
approved by the Board to the credit of the body corporate.

5

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
as  are  required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its power, duties and functions under the Act.

Fund  of  the
body
corporate

10

10.

(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall

be the calendar year.

Accounts  and
the  Auditing

(2) The  body  corporate  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to
be  kept  of  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities
and all other transactions of the body corporate.

15

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
by a qualified auditor appointed by Auditor General in terms
of Article 154 of the Constitution.

(4) For  the  purpose  of  this  section  “qualified  auditor”

means —

20

(a)

25

30

an  individual  who,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant,  issued  by    the  Council  of  such
institute;  or

(b)

a  firm  of  Accountants  each  of  the  resident
partners  of  which,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or  of  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  of  practice  as  an
Accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
institute.

Chiththa  Advanced  Psychological  Studies
Open Institute of Sri Lnaka (Incorporation)

9

Annunal
report

11.

(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the body corporate for each financial year and submit such
report together with the audited statement of accounts to the
Sectetary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject
of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary Social
Services Organizations appointed under the Voluntary Social
Services Organization (registration and Supervision) Act, No.
31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of the year
succeeding the year to which such report realtes.

(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and local
moneys  received  by  the  body  corporate  during  the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to
in subsection (1).

12. All  debts  and  liabilities  of  the  Centre  existing  on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the body corporate hereby constituted and
all debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to
the Centre on that day shall be paid to the body corporate
for the purpose of this Act.

Depts  due  by
and  payable
to  the  Centre

13. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  the  body
corporate shall be able and capable in law,  to take and hold
any  property  movable  or  immovable,  which  may  become
vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by  the  body  corporation  for  the  purpose  of  this  Act  and
subject  to  the  rules  of  the  body  corporate  made  under
section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or
otherwise dispose of the same.

Body
corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

14. The  moneys  and  property  of  the  body  corporate
howevey  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion  of  the  objects  of  the  body  corporate  and  no
portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  thrnsferred  directly  or
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit to the members
of the body corporate.

Application
of  money
and  property

5

10

15

20

25

30

10

Chiththa  Advanced  Psychological  Studies
Open Institute of Sri Lnaka (Incorporation)

15.

(1) The  Seal  of  the  body  corporate  shall  not  be
affixed to any instrument whatsoever except in the presence
of the  two members of the Board  who shall sign their names
to the  instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall  be  independent  of  the  signing  of  any  person  as  a
witness.

Seal  of  the
body
corporate

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.

16.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  body  corporate,
there  remains  after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be distributed among the members of the body corporate, but
shall be given or transferred to any other institution having
objects  similar to those of the body corporate, and which is
by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income
or property among its  members.

(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at  a  general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect  the  rights  of  the  Republic  or  of  anybody  politic  or
corporate.

18. No person shall be liable in any suit or other legal
preceding for any act done, or purporting to be done, in good
faith in pursuance of the powers conferred by or under this
Act, or for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this
Act.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
republic  and
others

Indemnity
for  acts  done
in  good  faith

5

10

15

20

25

30

19.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

Chiththa  Advanced  Psychological  Studies
Open Institute of Sri Lnaka (Incorporation)

11

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

