PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

PREVENTION  OF  FRAUDS  (AMENDMENT)
 ACT, No. 30 OF 2022

[Certified on 25th of October, 2022]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 28, 2022

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

 Prevention of Frauds (Amendment)
Act, No. 30 of 2022

1

[Certified on 25th of October, 2022]

L.D.—O. 71/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PREVENTION OF FRAUDS ORDINANCE
(CHAPTER 70)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Prevention  of  Frauds

Short  title

(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 2022.

2.  Section  2  of  the  Prevention  of  Frauds  Ordinance
(Chapter  70)  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended by the repeal of all the words
from “shall be of force” to the end of that section and the
substitution therefore of the following:-

Amendment  of
section  2  of
Chapter 70

“shall be in force or avail in law unless –

(a) the relevant deed or instrument shall be in
writing,  signed  by  every  executant  and
attested  by  a  notary  public  before  two
witnesses present at the same time; and

(b) the left or right thumb impression of every
such  executant  or    where  both  thumbs  of
such executant are missing, the impression
of any other finger or the toe impression as
the case may be, is affixed above or besides
the signature to the original, duplicate and
the  protocol  of  the  relevant  deed  or
instrument:

2

 Prevention of Frauds (Amendment)
Act, No. 30 of 2022

Provided  however,  in  the  event  the
signature  or  the  thumb  impression  of  any
such  executant  cannot  be  obtained  due  to
any  reason,  the  notary  public  shall  state
such  reason  in  the  attestation,  and  such
executant  shall  affix  any  other  finger
impression  or  toe  impression,  as  the  case
may be.”;

Amendment  of
section  4  of  the
principal
enactment

3. Section  4  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby

amended as follows:-

(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1);

(2) by the repeal of all the words from “in the manner
hereinafter  mentioned;”  to  the  end  of  renumbered
subsection  (1)  of  that  section  and  the  substitution
therefor  of  the  words  “subject  to  the  provisions
specified in subsection (2);

(3) by the addition immediately after subsection (1) of

that section, the following new subsection: -

“(2) The testator shall –

(a) sign;  and

(b) affix his left or right thumb impression,

at the foot or end of the will, testament or codicil
referred to in subsection (1), before a notary public
and two witnesses who shall be present at the same
time:

 Prevention of Frauds (Amendment)
Act, No. 30 of 2022

3

Provided  however,  in  the  event  the  thumb
impression of the testator cannot be obtained due
to  any  reason,  he  shall  affix  any  other  finger
impression or the toe impression, as the case may
be.

4. Section  7  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby

amended as follows: –

(1) by  the  substitution  for  the  words  “signature  of  the
testator or testatrix”, of the words “signature and the
left  or  right  thumb  impression  or  any  other  finger
impression or the toe impression as the case may be,
of the testator ”;

(2) by the insertion immediately after that section of the

following  proviso:-

“Provided however that, in the event the signature
or left or right thumb impression or any other finger
impression as the case may be, of the testator  cannot
be obtained due to any reason, the testator shall affix
his toe impression and the notary public shall state
such reason in his attestation.”.

5. Section  16  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby

amended as follows:-

(1) by the substitution for the word “duplicate.” of the

word “triplicate.”; and

(2) by  the  repeal  of  the  marginal  note  thereof  and  the

substitution therefore of the following: -

“Deeds to be executed in Triplicate”

6.

In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Amendment  to
section  7  of  the
principal
enactment

Amendment  to
section  16  of
the  principal
enactment

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  the
case  of
inconsistency

 
4

 Prevention of Frauds (Amendment)
Act, No. 30 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

