THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of August 20, 2021

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 23.08.2021)

INDIRA  CANCER  TRUST  (INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Indira Cancer Trust

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Manusha Nanayakkara, M.P.
for Galle District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)

1

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE  INDIRA CANCER TRUST

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Indira
Cancer Trust” has  heretofore been established in Sri Lanka
for the purpose of effectually  carrying out  its objects and
transacting all matters connected with the said Association
according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Association  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established and has  applied to
be incorporated and it will be for public advantage to grant
the  said  application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Indira  Cancer  Trust

Short  title

(Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2021.

Incorporation
of  the  Indira
Cencer  Trust

2.

(1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons now are members of the Indira
Cancer Trust (hereinafter referred to as the “Trust”) and shall
hereafter be admitted as members of the body corporate hereby
constituted shall have  perpetual succession under the name
and style of the “Indira Cancer Trust” (hereinafter  referred to
as the “body corporate”) and by that name may sue and be
sued with full  power and authority to have and use a common
seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Service Organization within the meaning and for the
purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Services  Organization
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions  of  that  Act  shall  apply  to  and  in  relation  to  the
management of the affairs of the body corporate.

5

10

15

20

25

2

Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)

3. The general objects for which the body corporate is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

5

10

(a)

to reduce the number of cancer cases and deaths and
improve the quality of life of cancer patients through
prevention, early detection, diagnosis, treatment and
palliation;

(b)

to initiate cost effective long term strategies for cancer
and 30-50% of all cancer cases are preventable;

(c)

(d)

to increases the chances of successful treatment by
focusing on detecting symptomatic patients as earliest
possible  stage;

to  assist  to  cure  or  considerably  prolog  the  life  of
patients and to ensure the best possible quality of life
for cancer survivors;

15

(e)

to improve access to palliative care with an emphasis
on primary health care and community/home based
care; and

(f)

to assist in improving the mental, social and in general
the quality of life of cencer sufferers and their families.

20

4. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out
in such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the body corporate and any work being carried out
simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or of any Provincial Council.

25

30

5.

(1) The affairs of the body corporate shall, subject to
the provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the body corporate be administered by a Board of
Directors (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”)  consisting
of Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer elected in accordance
with the rules.

General
objects  of  the
body
corporate

Body
corporate  to
ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of
Ministry  or
Department
of  the
Government
or  Provincial
Council

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the  body
Corporate

Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)

3

(2) The first Board of Directors of the body corporate shall
consist  of  the  members  of  the  Committee  of  Management
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform  and  execute  all  such  acts,  matters  and  things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of all and any object of the body corporate or any
one of them, including the powers to open, operate or close
bank accounts, to borrow or raise moneys with or without
security, to receive or collect or accept grants and donations,
to invest its funds and to engage, employ and dismiss officers
and servants required for the carrying out of the objects of
the body corporate.

Powers  of  the
body
corporate

7.

(1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time
to time, at any annual general meeting of the body corporate
and by a majority of not less than two - thirds of the members
present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters :—

Rules  of  the
body
corporate

(a)

(b)

(c)

the  classification  of  members  and  the  admission,
expulsion, removal or withdrawal of members;

the election of office bearers, the resignation from
office, vacation of or removal from  office of office
bearers and their  powers, functions and duties;

the  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board of Directors
and of the time, places, notices  and agenda of such
meetings,  the  quorum  thereof  and  the  conduct  of
business thereof;

(d)

the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
conduct, duties and functions   of the various officers,
agents and servants of the body corporate;

5

10

15

20

25

30

4

Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)

(e)

the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate; and

(f)

the management of the affairs of the body corporate,
and the accomplishment of its objects.

5

(2) Any  rule  made  by  the  body  corporate  may  be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and
in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The rules made under this section shall be published
in  the  Gazette  within  three  months  upon  making  of  such
rules and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

10

(4) The members of the body corporate shall at all times

be subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8. The  Board  shall  maintain  a  register  of  members  in
which  the  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members shall be inscribed.

15

Register  of
members

Fund  of  the
body
corporate

9.

(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2)  All  moneys  received  by  way  of  gifts,  bequests,
donations, subscriptions, fees or grants for and on account of
the body corporate shall be deposited in one or more banks
approved  by  the  Board  to  the  credit  of  the  body  corporte
subject to the provisions of section 6.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums of
money as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by
the body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

20

25

10.

(1) The financial year of the body Corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
auditing

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts  to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of such body corporate.

30

Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)

5

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  the  Auditor-General  or  a  qualified  auditor
appointed by the Auditor-General in terms of the provisions
of  Article  154  of  the  Constitution  and  be  certified  by  the
Auditor-General or such qualified auditor.

(4) For  the  purposes  of  this  section  “qualified  auditor”

means-

(a)

(b)

an  individual  who,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or  of  any  other  Institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
Institute; or

a  firm  of  Accountants,  each  of  the  resident
partners of which, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued
by the Board of such Institute.

Annual
report

11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the boby corporate for each financial year and submit such
report together with the audited statement of accounts certified
by the Auditor-General or a qualified auditor referred to in
section 10 to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Social Services and to the Registrar
of Voluntary Social Services Organizations appointed under
the Voluntary Social Services Organization (Registration and
Supervision) Act,  No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six
months of the year succeeding the year to which such report
relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreign
and local funds received by the body corporate during the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).

5

10

15

20

25

30

6

Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)

5

10

15

20

12. All debts and liabilities of the Trust existing on the
day  immediately  preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of
this  Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  body  corporate  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to  and  subscriptions  and
contributions payable to the Trust  on that day shall be paid
to the body corporate for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the  Trust

13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the body corporate
shall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,
both movable and immovable, which may become vested in it
by virture of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition
or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the body
corporate for the purpose of this Act and subject to the rules
made  under  section  7,  with  power  to  sell,  mortgage,  lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Body
corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

14. The moneys and property of the body corporate shall
be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the
body  corporate  and  no  portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or
transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend, bonus
or profit or otherwise to the members of the body corporate.

Application
of  moneys
and  property

15.

(1) The Seal of the body corporate shall be affixed
to any instrument except in the presence of the Chairperson
and the Secretary who shall sign their names to the instrument
in  token  of  their  presence  and  such  signing  shall  be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
body
corporate

25

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an officer bearer of the Board as may be decided by the
Board.

30

16.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  body  corporate
there  remains  after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be distributed among the members of the body corporate but
shall be given or transferred to any other institution having

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)

7

objects similar to those of the body corporate, and which is
by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income
or property among their members.

5

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  subsection  (1)  the  appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at  a  general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect  the  rights  of  the  Republic  or  any  body  politic  or
corporate.

10

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic

18.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

8

Indira Cancer Trust (Incorporation)

Department  of  Government  Printing

