PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

PARTITION  (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 27 OF 2024

[Certified on 13th of  May, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 17, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Partition (Amendment)
Act, No. 27 of 2024

1

[Certified on 13th of May, 2024]

L.D.-O. 68/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PARTITION LAW, NO. 21 OF 1977

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Partition (Amendment)

Short  title

Act, No. 27 of 2024.

2. Section  15  of  the  Partition  Law,  No.  21  of  1977
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended as follows: -

Amendment  of
section  15  of
Law,  No.  21  of
1977

(1) by the repeal of subsections (2) and (3) thereof, and
the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following
subsections:-

 “(2) Every Grama Niladhari to whom a copy of
such notice  and a copy of a translation thereof are
sent by registered post under subsection (1) of this
section  shall  cause    the  contents  of  the  notice,
including the Schedule of the land or lands, as the
case may be, to be exhibited in a banner displayed,
in the manner as may be prescribed by regulations,
in a conspicuous place in his office or close to his
office  for a period of not less than thirty days, and
shall  forward  to  the  court    a  report  to  that  effect
substantially  in  the  form  set  out  in  the  Second
Schedule.

(3) The  Grama  Niladhari  shall  also  cause  the
contents of the notice sent to him under subsection
(1) of  this  section,  including  the  Schedule  of  the
land or lands, as the case may be-

(a)

to  be  exhibited  in  a  banner,  in  a
conspicuous position in the land or lands,
as the case may be, in the manners as may
be prescribed by regulations; and

2

Partition (Amendment)
Act, No. 27 of 2024

(b)

to be orally proclaimed by way of public
announcement made using a loudspeaker
at such land or each of such lands and at
any public place close to such land or each
of such lands, as the case may be,

and shall forward to the court a report to that effect
substantially  in  the  form  set  out  in  the  Second
Schedule.”;  and

(2) by  the  addition,  at  the  end  of  that  section  of  the

following new subsection:-

“(4)  The  cost  of  the  publication  done  under
subsections (2) and (3) of this section shall be borne
by  the  plaintiff  in  the  first  instance  and  shall  be
recoverable “pro rata”. The Grama Niladhari shall
forward  an  affidavit  to  the  court  affirming  the
execution  of  the  publications  referred  to  in
subsections (2) and (3) of this section along with
the reports referred to in subsections (2) and (3) of
this  section  within  two  months  from  the  date  of
receipt of such notice.”.

Amendment  of
section  16  of  the
principal
enactment

3.  Section  16  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  by  the  repeal  of  subsection  (2)  thereof,  and  the
substitution therefor of the following subsection:-

“(2)  (a)  The  commission  issued  to  a  surveyor
under  subsection  (1)  of  this  section  shall  be
substantially  in  the  form  set  out  in  the  Second
Schedule and shall have attached thereto a copy of
the plaint certified as a true copy by the registered
attorney for the plaintiff.

Partition (Amendment)
Act, No. 27 of 2024

3

(b)  The  court  may,  upon  transmit  to  it  under
section 18 the plan prepared by the surveyor in the
execution  of  the  commission  issued  under
subsection (1), order to issue a further commission,
on its own motion or at the instance of any party to
the action, authorizing-

(i)

(ii)

the surveyor referred to in subsection (1)
or  any  other  surveyor  whose  name  is
specified in the list of surveyors referred
to  in  section  73,  to  survey  any  larger  or
smaller  portion  of  the  land  that  was
surveyed  under  the  commission  issued
under subsection (1); or

any  surveyor  other  than  the  surveyor
referred  to  in  subsection  (1)  and  whose
name is specified in the list of surveyors
referred to in section 73, to resurvey the
land  that  was  surveyed  under  the
commission issued under subsection (1),

and  the  court  may  also  direct  the  surveyor  who
executes  the  further  commission  to  superimpose
the plan prepared under the further commission on
the plan prepared in the execution of the commission
issued under subsection (1) or to carry out any other
similar matter necessary for the adjudication of the
action.

(c) In the execution of the further commission
referred  to  in  paragraph  (b),  the  provisions  of
paragraph (a) of this subsection, the provisions of
subsections (1), (3), (4), (5) and (6) of this section
and  the  provisions  of  sections  17  and  18  shall
mutatis mutandis, apply in respect thereof.”.

4

Partition (Amendment)
Act, No. 27 of 2024

Amendment  of
section  17  of  the
principal
enactment

4.  Section  17  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  in  subsection  (2)  thereof,  by  the  substitution  for
the words “after beat of tom-tom,” of the words “by way of
public announcement made using a loudspeaker,”.

Amendment  of
section  18  of  the
principal
enactment

5.  Section  18  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended in subparagraph (iv) of paragraph (a) of subsection
(1) thereof, by the substitution for the words “the parties to
the action who were present at the survey,” of the words “the
parties  to  the  action  who  were  present  at  the  survey,  the
nature of their claims”.

Amendment  of
section  23  of  the
principal
enactment

6.  Section  23  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended in subsection (1)  thereof, by the substitution for
all the words from “Every party to a partition action shall,”
to “a list filed as aforesaid.” of the words-

“Every  party  to  a  partition  action  shall,  not  less
than thirty days before the date first fixed for the
trial  of  the  action,  file  or  cause  to  be  filed  in  the
court a list of documents on which he relies to prove
his  rights,  share  or  interest  to,  of  or  in  the  and
together  with  an  abstract  of  the  contents  of  such
documents and a list of witnesses. Where a party is
allowed  to  intervene  after  the  date  first  fixed  for
trial, such party shall file a list of documents and a
list  of  witnesses  within  thirty  days  of  such
intervention. No party shall, except with the leave
of the court which may be granted on such term as
the court may determine, be permitted to put any
document or witness in evidence on his behalf in
the action if that document or witness is not listed
in the lists filed as aforesaid.”.

Partition (Amendment)
Act, No. 27 of 2024

5

7.  The  following  new  section  is  hereby  inserted
immediately after section 24 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 24A of that enactment:-

Insertion  of  new
section  24A  in
the  principal
enactment

“Amendments
of  pleadings

 24A. (1) Upon an application made to the
court before the day first fixed for trail of the
action, in the presence of, or after reasonable
notice to all the parties to the action, the court
shall  have  full  power  of  amending  in  its
discretion, all pleadings in the action, by way
of addition, or alteration, or of omission.

(2) On or after the date the case is first fixed
for trail, no application for the amendment of
any pleadings shall be allowed unless the court
is satisfied for reasons to be recorded that grave
and  irremediable  injustice  will  be  caused  or
that  a  thorough  investigation  of  title  will  be
impeded, if such amendment is not permitted
subject to costs or otherwise, and that the party
so applying has not been guilty of laches.

(3)  Any  application  for  amendment  of
pleadings which may be allowed by the court
under subsection (1) or (2) shall be upon such
terms as to costs and postponement or otherwise
as the court may think fit.

(4) The additions or alterations or omissions
shall  be  clearly  made  on  the  face  of  the
pleading affected by the order; or if this cannot
conveniently  be  done,  a  fair  copy  of  the
pleading  as  altered  shall  be  appended  in  the
record of the action to the pleading amended.
Every such addition or alteration or omission
shall be signed by the Judge.”.

6

Partition (Amendment)
Act, No. 27 of 2024

Amendment  of
section  27  of  the
principal
enactment

8.  Section  27  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  by  the  repeal  of  subsection  (3)  thereof,  and  the
substitution therefor of the following subsection:-

“(3) Where the court decides that the land or any
portion thereof shall be partitioned, the commission
under subsection (2) of this section shall be issued
to the surveyor who made the preliminary survey
under section 17 unless the court decides to issue it
to any other surveyor whose name is specified in
the  list  referred  to  in  section  73  or  where  court
deemed  fit,  notwithstanding  anything  to  the
contrary in section 73, to any other surveyor upon
agreement  of  all  parties  who  have  been  awarded
any right by the interlocutory decree entered under
section 26.”.

Amendment  of
section  30  of  the
principal
enactment

9.  Section  30  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  in  subsection  (3)  thereof,  by  the  substitution  for
the words “after beat of tom-tom,” of the words “by way of
public announcement made using a loudspeaker,”.

Replacement  of
section  36A  of
the  principal
enactment

10.  Section  36A  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

“Application
for  leave  to
appeal

36A. Any person dissatisfied with an order
made by the court under section 36 may prefer
an  application  for  leave  to  appeal  to  the
relevant  High  Court  established  by  Article
154P of the Constitution in terms of subsection
(2) of section 754 of the Civil Procedure Code
(Chapter 101) against such order.”.

Amendment  of
section  45A  of
the  principal
enactment

11.  Section  45A  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  in  subsection  (2)  thereof,  by  the  substitution  for
the words and figures “under sections 36A and 45A” of the
words and figures  “under sections 36 and 45”.

Partition (Amendment)
Act, No. 27 of 2024

7

12.  Section  52  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  in  subsection  (1)  thereof,  by  the  substitution  for
the words “by motion in that behalf,” of the words “by motion
in that behalf, within ten years from the date of such final
decree or of the final decree, if any, on appeal affirming the
same”.

Amendment  of
section  52  of  the
principal
enactment

13.  Section  57  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  by  the  repeal  of  paragraph  (d)  of  subsection  (1)
thereof,  and  the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following
paragraph:-

Amendment  of
section  57  of  the
principal
enactment

“(d)

the cost incurred in the display of the banner and
the  proclamation  made  under  section  15  and  the
cost  incurred  in  the  proclamation  made  under
section  17;”.

14.  Section  67  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  in  subsection  (3)  thereof,  by  the  substitution  for
the words “damage to the land” of the words “damage to the
land, or making any alteration to the character of the land,”.

Amendment  of
section  67  of  the
principal
enactment

15.  The  Second  Schedule  to  the  principal  enactment  is

hereby amended as follows:-

(1)

in  the  Form  prescribed  under  subsection  (2)  of
section  15  which  bears  the  title  “REPORT  BY
GRAMA NILADHARI”-

Amendment  of
the  Second
Schedule  to  the
principal
enactment

(a) by the substitution for the words and figures
“(Section  15(2))”  of  the  words  and  figures
“(subsections (2) and (3) of section 15)”; and

(b) by  the  substitution  for  the  words  “I  have
exhibited 
the  annexed  notice  with
translations on the notice board of my office
from ....19....to.....19” of the following:-

8

Partition (Amendment)
Act, No. 27 of 2024

“I have exhibited the contents of the notice,
including  the  Schedule  of  the  land  in  a
banner  displayed  in  a  conspicuous  place
in my office and in a conspicuous place in
the land and orally proclaimed by way of
public  announcement  made  using  a
loudspeaker at such land and at a public
place close to such land from .... to ....”;
and

(2)

in  the  Form  prescribed  under  subsection  (1)  of
section  18  which  bears  the  title  “FORM  OF
SURVEYOR’S  REPORT”,  by  the  repeal  of
paragraph (vi) thereof, and the substitution therefor
of the following:-

“(vi) parties present and the nature of their

 claims;”.

Avoidance  of
doubt

16. For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that
the amendments made by section 3 of this Act to section 16
of  the  principal  enactment  shall  apply  to  any  action,
proceeding or appeal instituted under the provisions of the
principal enactment and pending or incomplete on the date
of coming into operation of this Act.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

10

Partition (Amendment)
Act, No. 27 of 2024

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING
English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

