THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of February 03, 2023

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 06.02.2023)

SRI  LANKA  INSTITUTE  OF  TRAINING  AND
DEVELOPMENT  (INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Sri Lanka Institute of Training and Development

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. (Mrs.) Kokila Gunawardene, M. P.
for Gampaha District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 20.00

Postage : Rs. 50.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Sri Lanka Institute of Training and Development
(Incorporation)

1

  AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT

WHEREAS an Institute called and known as the “Sri Lanka
Institute of Training and Development” has heretofore been
established for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected  with the said
Institute according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Institute  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to
grant  the  application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

5

10

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Sri  Lanka  Institute  of
Training and Development (Incorporation) Act, No.  2023.

Short  title

15

20

25

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such  and  so  many  persons,  as  now  are  members  of  the
Sri Lanka Institute of Training and Development  (hereinafter
referred to as  “the Institute”) and shall hereafter be  admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body  corporate  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the    “the
Corporation”)  with  perpetual  succsection  under  the  name
and  style  of  the  “Sri  Lanka  Institute  of  Training  and
Development”, and by that name may sue and be sued in all
courts, with full power and  authority to have and to  use a
common seal and alter the same act its pleasure.

Incorporation
of  the  Sri
Lanka
Institute  of
Training  and
Development

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be —

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

(a)

to grant professional recognition to the members of
the institute in the various grades of membership;

2

Sri Lanka Institute of Training and Development
(Incorporation)

5

10

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

to  raise  and  uphold  the  interest,  dignity,  welfare,
rights and professional status, of those engaged in
the field of training and development;

to  maitain  links  with  similar  professional  bodies
both local and foreign;

to intervene with the appropriate authorities when
issues arise that, may threaten the well-being of the
profession in general;

to enhance professional togetherness by promoting
social activities among the membership;

to  establish,  encourage  and  foster  ethical  and
professional  standards  of  work  and  conduct  for
members  of  the  profession  and  to  take  necessary
and expedient steps in this connection;

15

(g)

to  provide  and  promote  maintenance  of  a
representive  body  for  the  training  profession  and
to  collect,  collate,  co-ordinate  and  distribute
information, ideas, methods and techniques for the
benefit and improvement of the training profession;

20

(h)

to  foster,  promote,  encourage  and  facilitate
discussion  study  and  research  and  to  disseminate
information  on  matters  and  problems  connected
with  training;

25

(i)

(j)

to encourage, foster and promote the creation of a
learning culture within Sri Lankan Organizations;

to actively promote Human Resource Development
initiatives at the organizational level with a view
to  the  enhancement  of  the  level  of  managerial
competencies  in  organizations;

Sri Lanka Institute of Training and Development
(Incorporation)

3

(k)

to  be  actively  involved  with,  and  explore  the
frontiers  of,  knowledge  management  to  help
members  and  their  organizations  to  harness  their
potential as a source of competitive advantage; and

(l) generally  to  do  all  such  acts  and  things  as  are
necessary  for,  or  incidental  or  conductive  to,  the
carrying out or the attainment of the objects of the
Institute;

4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules  in  force  for  the  time  being  of  the  Corporation,  be
administered  by  an  Executive  Council  consisting  of  the
office-bearers and such other persons as may be provided for
in such rules and elected in accordance therewith.

Management
of  the  Affairs
of  the
Corporation

Rules  of  the
Corporation

(2) The first Executive Council of the Corporation shall
be  the  members  of  the  Executive  Council  of  the  Institute
holding  office  on  the  day  preceding  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

5. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting of the members and by a majority
of not less than two-thirds of the members present and entitled
to vote, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions
of  this  Act  or  any  other  written  law,  for  the  admission,
expulsion  or  withdrawal  of  members,  for  the  election  of
members of the Executive Council, for the conduct of the
duties of the Executive Council and of the various officers,
agents and servants of the Corporation, for the procedure to
be followed in the transation of business at meetings of the
Corporation  and  the  Executive  Council  and  otherwise
generally, for the management of the affairs of corporation
and the attainment of its objects.

5

10

15

20

25

30

4

Sri Lanka Institute of Training and Development
(Incorporation)

(2) The rules of the Institute in force on the day preceding
the date of commencement of this Act shall, insofar as they
are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or other
written law, be deemed to be the rules of the Corporation
made  under  this  section  and  may  be  altered,  added  to,
amended,  rescinded  or  replaced  by  rules  made  under  this
Act.

(3) No  rules  of  the  Corporation  for  the  time  being  in
force nor any rules which may hereafter be passed, shall be
altered, added to, amended or rescinded except by the votes
of two-thirds of the members present and voting at a general
meeting of the Corporation:

5

10

Provided  however,  that  no  such  alteration,  addition,
amendment or rescission shall have effect unless approved
by the Executive Council of the Corporation.

15

6. (1)  The  Executive  Council  of  the  Corporation  shall
cause proper books of account to be kept of the income and
expenditure of the Corporation.

Accounts  of
the
Corporation

20

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor appointed by the Executive Council of
the  Corporation.

(3) In this section, “qualified auditor” means-

25

30

(a)

 (b)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or

a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of  which  being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  of  any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute,

Sri Lanka Institute of Training and Development
(Incorporation)

5

7. (1) The Corporation shall be able and capable in law
to  acquire  by  purchase,  gift,  bequest,  grant,  devise,
disposition, exchange or in any other manner and to hold,
any movable or immovable property and to dispose of any
such property acquired or held by the Corporation.

Powers  of  the
Corporation
to  acquire
property  and
raise  money

(2) The Corporation shall have the power to borrow or
raise money necessary for the furtherance of its objects on
any  security  and  to  secure  the  discharge  of  any  debt  or
obligation  of  the  Corporation  in  such  manner  as  may  be
deemed fit.

(3) The  Corporation  may  raise  funds  and  receive
subscriptions, grants, donations, and gifts in cash or kind.

(4) All  property  movable  and  immovable,  acquired  or
held by the Corporation and all moneys paid to or received
by the Corporation under this Act or rules made there under
shall  be  held,  used  and  applied  by  the  Corporation  in
accordance with it’s rules, for the furtherance of its objects.

8. The seal of the Corporation shall be kept in the custody
of the Secretary of the Corporation and shall nor be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
President  or  any  officer  of  the  Corporation  authorized  in
that behalf in accordance with the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation, who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence, and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation

9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys  heretofore  or  hereafter  received  by  way  of    gifts,
bequest,  donations,  subscriptions,  contributions,  fees  or
grants  for  and  on    account  of  the  Corporation,  shall  be
deposited  to  the  credit  of  the  Corporation  in  one  or  more
banks as the Committee of Management of the Corporation
shall determine.

Funds  of  the
Corporation

5

10

15

20

25

30

6

Sri Lanka Institute of Training and Development
(Incorporation)

(2) There shall be paid out of the funds all sums of the
money to any expenditure incurred by the Body Corporation
in  the  exercise,  performance  and  discharge  of  its  powers,
duties and functions under this Act.

5

10

10. The  income  and  property  of  the  Corporation
howsoever  derived  shall  be  applied  solely,  towards  the
promotion of the objects as set forth herein, and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly, by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise by way of profit, to the
members of the Corporation.

Application
of  income
and  property,
of  the
Corporation

11. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on
the day preceding  the date of commencement of this Act
shall  be  paid  and  discharged  by  the  Corporation  and  all
debts  due  to,  and  subscriptions  and  contributions  payable
to the Institute on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Institute

12. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation,
or for any other  purpose, be liable to make any contribution
towards  discharging  such  debts  and  liabilities  exceeding
the  amount  of  such    annual  subscriptions  as    may  be  due
from him to the Corporation.

Limitation  of
liability  of
members  of
the
Corporation

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

13. If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Corporation  there
remains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities, any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given
or  transferred  to  some  other  institute  or  institutes  having
objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is or
are  by  the  rules  thereof  prohibited  from  distributing  any
income or property among its or their members. Such institute
or  institutions  shall  be  determined  by  the  members  of  the
Corporation at or immediately before the dissolution of the
Corporation.

15

20

25

30

Sri Lanka Institute of Training and Development
(Incorporation)

7

14. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect, the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or
corporate  or  of  any  other  persons,  except  such  as  are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from, or under,
them.

5

Saving  of  the
right  of  the
Republic  and
others

15. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

8

Sri Lanka Institute of Training and Development
(Incorporation)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

