THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

Part II of  July 12, 2024

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 17.07.2024)

THE ASSOCIATION OF CRICKET UMPIRES,
SRI  LANKA (INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Association of Cricket Umpires, Sri Lanka

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Premnath C. Dolawatte,
Attorney-at-Law, M.P. for Colombo District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

The Association of Cricket Umpires,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  ASSOCIATION
OF  CRICKET  UMPIRES,  SRI LANKA

5

10

15

20

25

WHEREAS    an    Association    called    and    known    as
“The   Association of Cricket Umpires, Sri Lanka”   has  heretofore
been established for the purpose of effectually  carrying out
and  transacting  all  matters  connected  with  the  said
Association, according to the rules agreed by it’s members :

Preamble

AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore been
successfully carried out and transacted, the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1. This Act may be cited as The Association of Cricket

Short  Title

Umpires, Sri Lanka (Incorporation)  Act, No.           2024.

2. From and after that date of commencement of this Act,
such  and  so  many  persons  as  now  are  Members  of  The
Association  of  Cricket  Umpires,  Sri  Lanka  (hereinafter
referred  to  as  “The  Association”)  or  shall  hereafter  be
admitted as members of the Corporation hereby  constituted,
shall  be  a  body  corporate  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “the
Corporation”) with perpetual succession under the name and
style of “The Association of Cricket Umpires, Sri Lanka”
and by that name may sue, and be sued, in all courts, with
full power and authority to have, and to use, a common seal
and alter the same at its pleasure.

3. The  general  objects  for  which  The  Corporation  is

established are hereby declared to be -

Incorporation
of  the
Association
of  Cricket
Umpires,
Sri  Lanka

General
objects
of  the
Corporation

2

The Association of Cricket Umpires,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)

(a)

to protect and promote the interests, status, welfare,
rights and privileges of the profession of Cricket
Umpires  and  the  persons  desiring  to  qualify  as
Cricket Umpires;

5

(b)

to  organize,  supervise  and  control  the  admission
and the professional training of persons desiring to
qualify as, and the grading of, Cricket Umpires;

(c)

to  improve  the  standard  of  cricket  umpiring  in
Sri Lanka by conducting on-going training courses;

10

(d)

to regulate the general conduct and the professional
activities of persons practicing as Cricket Umpires,
in  order  to  ensure  the  maintenance    of    high
standards in the profession;

(e)

15

to liase with the Ministry of Sports and Sri Lanka
Cricket and with Organizations outside Sri Lanka,
having allied interests and functions, to which the
Corporation is affiliated;

(f)

to assess the eligibility of persons for admission to
various grades of membership of the Corporation;

20

(g)

to  take  such  other  measures,  including  the
establishment  and  maintenance  of  data  banks,  as
may be necessary for the benefit and advancement
of the members of the Corporation.

25

4. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) the
adminstration, management and control of the affairs of the
Corporation shall, subject to the rules of the Corporation,
be vested in an Executive Committee (hereinafter referred
to  as  “The  Committee”)  consisting  of  a  President,  Vice

Management
of  the  Affairs
of  the
Corporation

The Association of Cricket Umpires,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)

3

Presidents, General Secretary, Treasurer,  Match Assigning
Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Assistant Treasurer, Assistant
Match  Assigning  Secretary,  Public  Relations  Officer  and
Committee  Members  elected  or  nominated  in  accordance
with the rules of the Corporation.

5

(2)  The first Committee of the Corporation shall consist
of the members of the Executive Committee of the Foundation
holding  office  on  the  day  preceding  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

10

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written  Law,  the  Committee  shall,  in  the  name  of  the
Corporation, have the power to all such acts and things as
are necessary for, or incidental or conductive to, the carrying
out, or the attainment of, the objects of the Corporation.

Powers  of  the
Corporation

15

(2)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generally  of  the  powers
conferred by sub-section (1), the Committee may exercise
and discharge the following powers and functions :-

(a)

(b)

to  acquire,  hold,  take  or  give  on  lease  or  hire,
mortgage, pledge, sell or exchange, or otherwise
alienate, encumber or dispose of, any movable or
immovable  property  for  the  purposes  of  the
Corporation;

to  enter  into  and  perform  whether  directly  or
through  any  Officer  or  agent  authorized  in  that
behalf  by  the  Corporation,  all  such  contracts  or
agreements as may be necessary for the  attainment
of the objects or the powers of the Corporation;

(c)

to open, operate and close Bank Accounts and to
invest  its  monies  in  such  securities  as  may  be
determined by the Committee;

20

25

30

4

The Association of Cricket Umpires,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)

(d)

to advance, or lend, and to borrow money for the
purposes of the Corporation in such manner and
upon  such  security  as  the  Committee  may  think
fit;

5

(e)

to levy fees, subscriptions  and contributions in
respect of membership, admission to membership,
renewal of membership and courses, conducted
by the Corporation;

10

15

(f)

(g)

to prescribe the terms and conditions of, and to
control the regulate the engagement, training and
dismissal of, persons desiring to qualify as Cricket
Umpires;

to appoint, employ, transfer, dismiss and exercise
disciplinary  control  over,  the  Officers  and
Servants  of  The  Corporation  and  to  pay  their
salaries, gratuities and allowances;

(h)

to  construct,  purchase,  maintain  and  repair
anything  required  for  the  purposes  of  the
Corporation;  and

20

(i)

to  take  all  such  steps  as  may  be  necessary  or
desirable for the promotion of all or any of the
objects of the Corporation.

25

6. (1) It  shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at an Annual General Meeting or a Special General
Meeting and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the
members present  and voting  to  make,  with  the  approval
of the  Committee,  rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law in respect of -

Rules  of  the
Corporation

The Association of Cricket Umpires,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)

5

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

the  term  of  Office  of  the  Office  Bearers  of  the
Committee,  the  eligibility  for  and  the  mode  of
election, appointment of sub-committees;

the  powers,  functions  and  duties  of  the  Office  -
Bearers of the Committee and any allowances or
fees payable to them;

the  establishment  and  regulation  of  a  provident
fund for the benefit of the Officers and Servants
and  the  contribution  to  be  made  by  the
Corporation  and  such Officers and Servants to
such  fund;

the  rights,  powers,  functions  and  duties  of  the
Officers, Servants and Agents of the Corporation;

the  summoning  and  holding  Annual  General
Meetings  and  Special  General  Meetings  of  the
members of  the Corporation;

the management of the property of the Corporation
and the custody of its funds;

the formulation of a Code of Professional Conduct;
and

(h)

the procedure of disciplinary inquiries.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added  to or rescinded at a like  meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under sub-section (1).

(3)  The  rules  of  the  Association  in  force  on  the  day
proceeding the date of commencement of this Act, shall, in
so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law, be deemed to be rules made
under this section.

5

10

15

20

25

6

The Association of Cricket Umpires,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)

(4) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to

the existing rules of the Corporation.

7.

 The Seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
the Honorary General Secretary and may be altered in such
manner as may be determined by the Executive Committee.
The Seal shall not be affixed to any instrument whatsoever,
except with the sanction of the Executive Committee and
in the presence of two members of the Executive Committee,
both  of  whom  shall  sign  the  instrument  in  token  of  their
presence. Such signing shall be independent of the signing
of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation

8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
Monies and heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants,
for and on  account of the Corporation, shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Committee shall  determine.

Fund  of  the
Corporation

5

10

15

(2) The Corporation may create any depreciation fund,
reserve or sinking fund for the rehabilitation, improvement
and development, of the property of the Corporation.

20

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund, all such sums of
money,  as  may  be  required  to  defray  any  expenditure
incurred  by  the  Corporation  in  its  exercise,  performance
and  discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this
Act.

25

(4) The monies and the property of the Corporation, shall
be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects set
forth herein and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred

The Association of Cricket Umpires,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)

7

directly  or  indirectly,  by  way  of  dividends,  bonus  or
otherwise, howsoever to the members of the Corporation.

9.  (1)  The  Treasurer  shall  under  the  supervision  of  the
Committee, cause proper books of  accounts  to  be  kept of
the Income and Expenditure of the Corporation

5

Accounts  and
the  Audit

10

15

20

25

(2)  The  accounts  of  the  Corporation  shall  be
examined  and  audited  at  least  once  in  every  year  and  the
correctness of the Income and Expenditure Account and the
Balance  Sheet  certified  by  the  Auditors  appointed  by  the
Committee.

10. All  debts  and  liabilities  of    the  Association
existing on the day, proceeding the date of  commencement
of this Act shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted
and  all  debts  due  to,  and  subscriptions  and  contributions
payable to the Association on that day shall be paid to the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  Payable
to  the
Association

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

11. If, at an Annual General Meeting or a Special General
Meeting, where 75% (3/4) of the Members, present at such
meeting, vote in favour of dissolving the Association, there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall    not  be
distributed among the Members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to either Sri  Lanka Cricket or the
Ministry of Sports and which is or are, by the  rules thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its Members. Such transfer to either, Sri Lanka Cricket or the
Ministry of Sports, shall be determined by the Members of
the  Corporation  at  or  immediately  before  the  time  of  the
dissolution of the Corporation.

8

The Association of Cricket Umpires,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)

12.  Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affects
the  rights  of  the  Republic  or  of  any  body  politic  or
corporate,  or  of  any  other  persons,  except  such  as  are
mentioned in this Act or those claimed by, from, or under,
them.

5

Saving  the
Rights  of  the
Republic  and
Others

13. In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala,  Tamil  and  English  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala
text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  Prevail  in
case  of
inconsisteney

The Association of Cricket Umpires,
Sri Lanka (Incorporation)

9

Department  of  Government  Printing

