PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

TWENTY FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE
CONSTITUTION

[Certified on 31st of October, 2022]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 04, 2022

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 80.00

Postage : Rs. 35.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

1

[Certified on 31st of October, 2022]

L.D.— O. 12/2022

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CONSTITUTION OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Twenty  First

Short  title

Amendment to the Constitution.

2. Chapter VIIA of the Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (in this Act referred to as the
“Constitution”) is hereby repealed and the following Chapter
is substituted therefor:-

Replacement  of
Chapter  VIIA  of
the
Constitution  of
the  Democratic
Socialist
Republic  of
Sri  Lanka

“CHAPTER VIIA

THE CONSTITUTIONAL COUNCIL

Constitution
of  the
Constitutional
Council.

41A.  (1)  There  shall  be  a  Constitutional
Council  (in  this  Chapter  referred  to  as  the
“Council”) which shall consist of the following
members:–

(a) the Prime Minister;

(b) the Speaker;

(c) the  Leader  of  the  Opposition  in

Parliament;

(d) one  Member  of  Parliament  appointed

by the President;

(e) five persons appointed by the President,
upon being nominated as follows:-

(i) one  Member  of  Parliament
nominated  by  agreement  of  the

2

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

majority  of  the  Members  of
Parliament  representing  the
Government;

(ii) one  Member  of  Parliament
nominated  by  agreement  of  the
majority  of  the  Members  of
Parliament of the political party
or  independent  group  to  which
the  Leader  of  the  Opposition
belongs;  and

(iii) three  persons  nominated  by  the
Speaker  by  agreement  of  the
Prime Minister and the Leader of
the Opposition; and

(f) one Member of Parliament nominated by
agreement of the Members of Parliament
other  than  those  representing  the
Government and those belonging to the
political  party  or  independent  group  to
which  the  Leader  of  the  Opposition
belongs, and appointed by the President.

(2) The Speaker shall be the Chairman of

the  Council.

(3)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Speaker  to
ensure  that  nominations  for  appointments
under sub-paragraph (e) or sub-paragraph (f) of
paragraph (1) are made, whenever an occasion
for such nominations arises.

(4) In nominating the five persons referred
to  in  sub-paragraph  (e)  of  paragraph  (1),  the
Prime Minister, the Speaker and the Leader of

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

3

the Opposition or the Members of Parliament,
as the case may be, shall ensure that the Council
reflects the pluralistic character of Sri Lankan
society,  including  professional  and  social
diversity.

(5)  The  persons  who  are  not  Members  of
Parliament  to  be  appointed  under  sub-
paragraph (e) of paragraph (1) shall be persons
of  eminence  and  integrity  who  have
distinguished  themselves  in  public  or
professional life and who are not members of
any political party whose nomination shall be
approved by Parliament.

(6) The President shall, within fourteen days
of  the  receipt  of  a  written  communication
specifying  the  nominations  made  under  sub-
paragraphs (e) and (f) of paragraph (1), make
the necessary appointments.

(7)  (a)  On  the  dissolution  of  Parliament,
notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph
(2) of Article 64, the Speaker shall continue to
hold office as a member of the Council, until a
Member  of  Parliament  is  elected  to  be  the
Speaker under paragraph (1) of the aforesaid
Article.

(b)  Notwithstanding  the  dissolution  of
Parliament, the Prime Minister, the Leader of
the Opposition and the Members of Parliament
who are members of the Council, shall continue
to  hold  office  as  Members  of  such  Council,
until  such  time  after  a  General  Election

4

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

following  such  dissolution,  a  Member  of
Parliament is appointed as the Prime Minister
or recognized as the Leader of the Opposition
or such number of Members of Parliament are
appointed  as  Members  of  the  Council  under
sub-paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of paragraph (1),
as the case may be.

(8) (a) The member of the Council appointed
under sub-paragraph (d) of paragraph (1), shall
hold office for a period of three years from the
date of appointment unless the member earlier
resigns his office by writing addressed to the
President  or  is  removed  from  office  by  the
President.

(b) Every member of the Council appointed
under sub-paragraphs (e) and (f) of paragraph
(1) shall hold office for a period of three years
from  the  date  of  appointment  unless  the
member  earlier  resigns  his  office  by  writing
addressed to the President or is removed from
office by the President on a resolution passed
by the majority of the Members of Parliament
(including  those  not  present)  voting  in  its
favour  on  the  grounds  of  physical  or  mental
incapacity and is unable to function further in
office or is convicted by a court of law for any
offence  involving  moral  turpitude  or  if  a
resolution for the imposition of civic disability
upon him has been passed in terms of Article 81
of  the  Constitution  or  is  deemed  to  have
vacated  his  office  under  paragraph  (7)  of
Article 41E.

(9)  In  the  event  of  there  being  a  vacancy
among  the  members  appointed  under  sub-
paragraph (d), (e) or (f) of paragraph (1), the
President  shall,  within  fourteen  days  of  the

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

5

occurrence of such vacancy and having regard
to  the  provisions  of  the  aforementioned  sub-
paragraphs, appoint another person to succeed
such member. Any person so appointed, shall
hold  office  during  the  unexpired  part  of  the
period  of  office  of  the  member  whom  he
succeeds.

(10)  A  member  appointed  under  sub-
paragraph (d), (e) or (f) of paragraph (1), shall
not be eligible for re-appointment.

(11)  The  appointments  made  by  the
President under sub-paragraphs (d), (e) and (f)
of paragraph (1), shall be communicated to the
Speaker.

Council  to
recommend
appointments.

41B.  (1)  No  person  shall  be  appointed  by
the President as the Chairman or a member of
any  of  the  Commissions  specified  in  the
Schedule  to  this  Article,  except  on  a
recommendation of the Council.

(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this
Article  shall  apply  in  respect  of  any  person
appointed  to  act  as  the  Chairman  or  as  a
member of any such Commission.

(3)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Council  to
recommend  to  the  President  fit  and  proper
persons  for  appointment  as  Chairmen  or
members of the Commissions specified in the
Schedule to this Article, whenever the occasion
for  such  appointments  arises,  and  such
recommendations  shall  endeavour  to  ensure
that  such  recommendations  reflect  the
pluralistic  character  of  Sri  Lankan  society,
including gender. In the case of the Chairmen

6

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

of  such  Commissions,  the  Council  shall
recommend three persons for appointment, and
the President shall appoint one of the persons
recommended as Chairman.

(4)  The  President  shall  appoint  the
Chairmen and the members of the Commissions
specified in the Schedule to this Article, within
fourteen 
the
of 
recommendations  of  the  Council  for  such
appointments.

receiving 

days 

(5)  No  person  appointed  under  paragraph
(1) or a person appointed to act as the Chairman
or a member of any such Commission, shall be
removed  except  as  provided  for  in  the
Constitution or in any written law, and where
there  is  no  such  provision,  such  person  shall
be removed by the President only with the prior
approval of the Council.

(6) All the Commissions referred to in the
Schedule  to  this  Article  shall  be  responsible
and answerable to Parliament.

SCHEDULE

(a) The Election Commission.

(b) The Public Service Commission.

(c) The National Police Commission.

(d) The Audit Service Commission.

(e) The  Human  Rights  Commission  of

Sri Lanka.

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

7

Council  to
approve
appointments.

(f) The  Commission 

to  Investigate

Allegations of Bribery or Corruption.

(g) The Finance Commission.

(h) The Delimitation Commission.

(i) The National Procurement Commission.

41C.  (1)  No  person  shall  be  appointed  by
the President to any of the Offices specified in
the  Schedule  to  this  Article,  unless  such
appointment  has  been  approved  by  the
Council upon a recommendation made to the
Council by the President.

(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this
Article  shall  apply  in  respect  of  any  person
appointed  to  act  for  a  period  exceeding
fourteen  days,  in  any  Office  specified  in  the
Schedule to this Article:

Provided that no person shall be appointed
to act in any such office for successive periods
not  exceeding  fourteen  days,  unless  such
acting appointment has been approved by the
Council on a recommendation by the President.

(3)  No  person  appointed  to  any  Office
specified in the Schedule to this Article or to
act in any such Office, shall be removed from
such  Office  except  as  provided  for  in  the
Constitution or in any law.

(4) In the discharge of its function relating
to the appointment of Judges of the Supreme
Court and the President and Judges of the Court
of Appeal, the Council shall obtain the views
of the Chief Justice.

8

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

SCHEDULE

PART I

(a) The Chief Justice and the Judges of the

Supreme Court.

(b) The President and the Judges of the Court

of Appeal.

(c) The  Members  of  the  Judicial  Service
Commission, other than the Chairman.

PART II

(a) The Attorney-General.

(b) The  Governor  of  the  Central  Bank  of

Sri Lanka.

(c) The Auditor-General.

(d) The Inspector-General of Police.

(e) The  Parliamentary  Commissioner  for

Administration (Ombudsman).

(f) The Secretary-General of Parliament.

Secretary-
General  and
other  officers
of  the
Council.

41D. (1) There shall be a Secretary-General
to the Council who shall be appointed by the
Council  for  a  term  of  three  years.  Upon  the
expiration of his term of office, the Secretary-
General shall be eligible for reappointment.

(2) The Council may appoint such officers
as it considers necessary for the discharge of
its functions, on such terms and conditions as
may be determined by the Council.

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

9

Meetings  of
the  Council.

41E. (1) The Council shall meet at least twice
every month, and as often as may be necessary
to  discharge  the  functions  assigned  to  the
Council  by  the  provisions  of  this  Chapter  or
by  any  law,  and  such  meetings  shall  be
summoned  by  the  Secretary-General  to  the
Council  on  the  direction  of  the  Chairman  of
the  Council.

(2)  The  Chairman  shall  preside  at  all
meetings of the Council and in the absence of
the Chairman, the Prime Minister, and in the
absence of the Prime Minister, the Leader of
the Opposition shall preside at the meetings of
the  Council.

(3)  The  quorum  for  any  meeting  of  the

Council shall be five members.

(4)  The  Council  shall  endeavour  to  make
every  recommendation,  approval  or  decision
it is required to make by unanimous decision
and  in  the  absence  of  a  unanimous  decision,
no recommendation, approval or decision made
by the Council shall be valid, unless supported
by not less than five members of the Council
present at such meeting.

(5)  The  Chairman  or  the  other  member
presiding shall not have an original vote, but
in  the  event  of  an  equality  of  votes  on  any
question  for  decision  at  any  meeting  of  the
Council,  the  Chairman  or  other  member
presiding at such meeting, shall have a casting
vote.

10

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

(6) The procedure in regard to meetings of
the Council and the transaction of business at
such  meetings  shall  be  determined  by  the
Council, including procedures to be followed
in regard to the recommendation or approval
of persons suitable for any appointment under
Article 41B or Article  41C.

(7) Any member of the Council appointed
under sub-paragraph (d), (e) or (f) of paragraph
(1) of Article 41A, who without obtaining prior
leave of the Council absents himself from three
consecutive meetings of the Council, shall be
deemed to have vacated office with effect from
the date of the third of such meetings.

(8) The Council shall have the power to act
notwithstanding  the  fact  that  it  has  not  been
fully constituted or that there is a vacancy in
its membership. No act, proceeding or decision
of  the  Council  carried  out  or  made  by  the
majority  vote  of  the  members  shall  be  or
deemed to be invalid by reason only of the fact
that the Council has not been fully constituted
or  that  there  has  been  a  vacancy  in  its
membership or that there has been any defect
in the appointment of a member.

41F. Notwithstanding the expiration of the
term of office of the members of the Council or
of the members of any Commission specified
in the Schedule to Article 41B, the members of
the Council or of such other Commission shall
continue in office until the assumption of office
by the new members of the Council or of such
other Commission.

Continuation
in  office  of
the  members
of  the
Council.

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

11

Powers  and
duties  of  the
Council.

41G.  (1)  The  Council  shall,  once  in  every
three  months,  submit  to  the  President  and
Parliament a report of its activities during the
preceding three months.

(2) The Council shall perform and discharge
such  other  duties  and  functions  as  may  be
imposed  or  assigned  to  the  Council  by  the
Constitution, or by any other written law.

(3)  The  Council  shall  have  the  power  to
make  rules  relating  to  the  performance  and
discharge of its duties and functions. All such
rules shall be published in the Gazette and be
placed before Parliament within three months
of such publication.

41H. The expenses incurred by the Council

shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.

41J. Subject to the provisions of Article 126,
no court shall have the power or jurisdiction to
entertain, hear or decide or call in question, on
any  ground  whatsoever,  or  in  any  manner
whatsoever, any decision of the Council or any
approval  or  recommendation  made  by  the
Council,  which  decision,  approval  or
recommendation shall be final and conclusive
for all purposes.”.

Expenses  to
be  charged
on  the
Consolidated
Fund.

Finality  of
decisions  of
the  Council.

3. Chapter VIII of the Constitution is hereby repealed

and the following Chapter is substituted therefor:-

Replacement  of
Chapter  VIII  of
the  Constitution

12

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

“CHAPTER VIII

THE EXECUTIVE

THE CABINET OF MINISTERS

President  to
be
responsible
t o
Parliament.

42.  The  President  shall  be  responsible  to
Parliament for the due exercise, performance
and  discharge  of  his  powers,  duties  and
functions  under  the  Constitution  and  any
written law, including the law for the time being
relating to public security.

Prime
Minister  and
the  Cabinet
of  Ministers.

43. (1) There shall be a Cabinet of Ministers
charged with the direction and control of the
Government of the Republic.

(2)  The  Cabinet  of  Ministers  shall  be
collectively  responsible  and  answerable  to
Parliament.

(3) The President shall be a member of the
Cabinet of Ministers and shall be the Head of
the Cabinet of Ministers:

Provided  that,  notwithstanding  the
dissolution of the Cabinet of Ministers under
the  provisions  of  the  Constitution,  the
President shall continue in office.

(4)  The  President  shall  appoint  as  Prime
Minister  the  Member  of  Parliament,  who,  in
the  President’s  opinion,  is  most  likely  to
command the confidence of Parliament.

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

13

Ministers  and
their  subjects
and
functions.

44. (1) The President shall, in consultation
with  the  Prime  Minister,  where  he  considers
such  consultation  to  be  necessary,  determine
the  number  of  Ministers  of  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers  and  the  Ministries  and  the
assignment of subjects and functions to such
Ministers.

(2) The President shall, in consultation with
the  Prime  Minister,  appoint  from  among
Members  of  Parliament,  Ministers,  to  be  in
charge of the Ministries so determined.

(3)  The  President  shall  be  the  Minister  in
charge  of  the  subject  of  Defence  and  may
exercise,  perform  and  discharge  the  powers,
duties  and  functions  of  any  Minister  of  the
Cabinet  of  Ministers  or  any  Minister  who  is
not  a  member  of  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers,
subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution,
for not exceeding fourteen days during a period
within  which  any    subject  or  function  is  not
assigned  to  any  such  Minister  under  the
provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article or
under  paragraph  (1)  of  Article  45  and
accordingly, any reference in the Constitution
or  any  written  law  to  the  Minister  to  whom
such subject or function  is assigned, shall be
read  and  construed  as  a  reference  to  the
President:

Provided however, preceding provisions of
this paragraph shall not preclude the President
from  assigning  any  subject  or  function  to
himself in consultation with the Prime Minister
and  accordingly,  any  reference  in  the
Constitution or any written law to the Minister
to whom such subject or function  is assigned,
shall be read and construed as a reference to
the President.

14

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

(4) The President may at any time change
the assignment of subjects and functions and
the  composition  of  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers.
Such changes shall not affect the continuity of
the Cabinet of Ministers and the continuity of
its responsibility to Parliament.

Ministers
who  are  not
members  of
the  Cabinet
of  Ministers.

   45. (1) The President may, in consultation
with the Prime Minister, appoint from among
Members  of  Parliament,  Ministers  who  shall
not be members of the Cabinet of Ministers.

(2) The President may, in consultation with
the  Prime  Minister  where  he  considers  such
consultation  to  be  necessary,  determine  the
assignment  of  subjects  and  functions  to
Ministers appointed under paragraph (1) of this
Article and the Ministries, if any, which are to
be in charge of, such Ministers.

(3) The President may at any time change

any assignment made under paragraph (2).

(4)  Every  Minister  appointed  under
paragraph  (1)  shall  be  responsible  and
answerable to the Cabinet of Ministers and to
Parliament.

(5) Any Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers
may, by Notification published in the Gazette,
delegate to any Minister who is not a member
of the Cabinet of Ministers, any power or duty
pertaining to any subject or function assigned
to such Cabinet Minister, or any power or duty
conferred  or  imposed  on  him  by  any  written
law,  and  it  shall  be  lawful  for  such  other
Minister to exercise and perform any power or
duty  delegated  notwithstanding  anything  to
the contrary in the written law by which that

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

15

power or duty is conferred or imposed on such
Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers.

Deputy
Ministers.

46. (1) The President may, in consultation
with the Prime Minister, appoint from among
Members of Parliament, Deputy Ministers to
assist Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers in
the performance of their duties.

 (2) Any Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers
may, by Notification published in the Gazette,
delegate to his Deputy Minister, any power or
duty  pertaining  to  any  subject  or  function
assigned to him or any power or duty conferred
or imposed on him by any written law, and it
shall  be  lawful  for  such  Deputy  Minister  to
exercise  and  perform  any  power  or  duty
delegated  notwithstanding  anything  to  the
contrary in the written law by which that power
or  duty  is  conferred  or  imposed  on  such
Minister.

47. (1) The total number of–

(a) Ministers  of  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers  shall  not  exceed
thirty;  and

(b) Ministers who are not members
of the Cabinet of Ministers and
Deputy  Ministers  shall  not,  in
the aggregate, exceed forty.

(2)  The  Prime  Minister  shall  continue  to
hold office throughout the period during which
the Cabinet of Ministers continues to function
under the provisions of the Constitution unless
he–

Tenure  of
office  of  the
Prime
Minister,  and
the  limitation
of  numbers
and  tenure  of
office  of
Ministers  and
Deputy
Ministers.

16

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

(a) is removed by a writing under the hand

of the President;

(b) resigns his office by a writing under his
hand addressed to the President; or

(c) ceases to be a Member of Parliament.

(3) A Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers,
a Minister who is not a member of the Cabinet
of  Ministers  and  a  Deputy  Minister,  shall
continue to hold office throughout the period
during  which  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers
continues to function under the provisions of
the  Constitution  unless  he–

(a) is removed from office under the hand
of  the  President  in  consultation  with
the Prime Minister;

(b) resigns from office by a writing under
his hand addressed to the President; or

(c) ceases to be a Member of Parliament.

(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in
paragraph  (1)  of  this  Article,  where  the
recognized political party or the independent
group which obtains highest number of seats
in  Parliament  forms  a  National  Government,
the  number  of  Ministers  in  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers, the number of Ministers who are not
Cabinet of Ministers and the number of Deputy
Ministers shall be determined by Parliament.

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

17

Cabinet  of
Ministers
after
dissolution  of
Parliament.

(5)  For  the  purpose  of  paragraph  (4),
National  Government  means,  a  Government
formed by the recognized political party or the
independent group which obtains the highest
number  of  seats  in  Parliament  together  with
the  other  recognized  political  parties  or  the
independent  groups.

48. (1) The Cabinet of Ministers functioning
immediately  prior  to  the  dissolution  of
Parliament  shall,  notwithstanding  such
dissolution,  continue  to  function  and  shall
cease  to  function  upon  the  conclusion  of  the
General  Election  and  accordingly,  the  Prime
Minister  and  the  Ministers  of  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers,  shall  continue  to  function  unless
they cease to hold office as provided in sub-
paragraph (a) of paragraph (2) or sub-paragraph
(a)  or  (b)  of  paragraph  (3)  of  Article  47  and
shall  comply  with  the  criteria  set  out  by  the
Commissioner-General of Elections and shall
not cause any undue influence on the General
Election.

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  death,  removal
from office or resignation of the Prime Minister,
during  the  period  intervening  between  the
dissolution  of  Parliament  and  the  conclusion
of  the  General  Election,  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers  shall  continue  to  function  with  the
other Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers as
its  members,  until  the  conclusion  of  the
General Election. The President may appoint
one  such  Minister  to  exercise,  perform  and
discharge the powers, duties and functions of
the Prime Minister.

(3)  On  the  death,  removal  from  office  or
resignation,  during  the  period  intervening

18

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

Dissolution
of  the
Cabinet  of
Ministers.

between the dissolution of Parliament and the
conclusion  of  the  General  Election,  of  a
Minister  of  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers,  the
President may, in consultation with the Prime
Minister, appoint any other Minister to be the
Minister  in  charge  of  the  Ministry  of  such
Minister or to exercise, perform and discharge
the  powers,  duties  and  functions  of  such
Minister.

49. (1) On the Prime Minister ceasing to hold
office  by  death,  resignation  or  otherwise,
except during the period intervening between
the  dissolution  of  Parliament  and  the
conclusion of the General Election, the Cabinet
of Ministers shall, unless the President has in
the  exercise  of  his  powers  under  Article  70,
dissolved Parliament, stand dissolved and the
President  shall  appoint  a  Prime  Minister,
Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministers
who  are  not  members  of  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers  and  Deputy  Ministers  in  terms  of
Articles 43, 44, 45 and 46:

Provided that if after the Prime Minister so
ceases to hold office, Parliament is dissolved,
the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  shall  continue  to
function with the other Ministers of the Cabinet
as  its  members,  until  the  conclusion  of  the
General Election. The President may appoint
one  such  Minister  to  exercise,  perform  and
discharge the powers, duties and functions of
the  Prime  Minister,  and  the  provisions  of
Article 48 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply.

(2)  If  Parliament  rejects  the  Statement  of
Government Policy or the Appropriation Bill
or  passes  a  vote  of  no-confidence  in  the
Government,  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  shall

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

19

Acting
Ministers  and
Deputy
Ministers.

Secretary  to
the  Prime
Minister  and
Secretary  to
the  Cabinet
of  Ministers.

stand dissolved, and the President shall, unless
he  has  in  the  exercise  of  his  powers  under
Article  70,  dissolved  Parliament,  appoint  a
Prime  Minister,  Ministers  of  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers, Ministers who are not members of
the Cabinet of Ministers and Deputy Ministers
in terms of Articles 43, 44, 45 and 46.

50. Whenever a Minister of the Cabinet of
Ministers, a Minister who is not a member of
the Cabinet of Ministers or a Deputy Minister
is  unable  to  discharge  the  functions  of  his
office, the President may, in consultation with
the  Prime  Minister,  appoint  any  Member  of
Parliament to act in the place of such Minister
of  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers,  Minister  who  is
not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers or a
Deputy Minister.

51. (1) (a) There shall be a Secretary to the
Prime Minister who shall be appointed by the
President.

(b) The Secretary shall have charge of the
office of the Prime Minister and shall perform
and discharge the duties and functions of his
office,  subject  to  the  directions  of  the  Prime
Minister.

(2) (a)  There  shall  be  a  Secretary  to  the
Cabinet  of  Ministers  who  shall  be  appointed
by the President.

  (b)  The  Secretary  shall,  subject  to  the
direction of the President, have charge of the
office  of  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers,  and  shall
discharge and perform such other functions and
duties  as  may  be  assigned  to  him  by  the
President or the Cabinet of Ministers.

20

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

Secretaries  to
Ministries.

52. (1) There shall be a Secretary for every
Ministry  of  a  Minister  of  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers,  who  shall  be  appointed  by  the
President.

(2) The Secretary to a Ministry shall, subject
to  the  direction  and  control  of  his  Minister,
exercise  supervision  over  the  departments  of
government and other institutions in charge of
the Minister.

(3) Notwithstanding the dissolution of the
Cabinet  of  Ministers  under  the  provisions  of
the  Constitution,  the  Secretary  to  a  Ministry
shall  continue  to  hold  office  until  a  new
Secretary  is  appointed  to  such  Ministry,  in
terms of the provisions of the Constitution:

Provided  however,  the  Secretary  to  a
Ministry  shall  cease  to  hold  office  upon  a
determination  by  the  President  under  Article
44 or 45 which results in such Ministry ceasing
to exist.

(4) For the purposes of this Article, the office
of the Secretary to the President, the office of
the Secretary to the Cabinet of Ministers, the
office of the Auditor-General, the office of the
Parliamentary 
for
Administration (Ombudsman), the office of the
Secretary-General  of  Parliament, 
the
Constitutional Council, and the Commissions
referred to in the Schedule to Article 41B shall
be  deemed  not  to  be  departments  of
Government.

Commissioner 

Official  oath
or
affirmation.

53. A person appointed to any office referred
to in this Chapter shall not enter upon the duties
of  his  office  until  such  person  takes  and

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

21

subscribes  the  oath  or  makes  and  subscribes
the affirmations set out in the Fourth Schedule
and Seventh Schedule.”.

4. Article 54 of the Constitution is hereby amended as

follows:-

Amendment  of
Article  54  of  the
Constitution

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article and
the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following
paragraph:-

“(1) There shall be a Public Service Commission
(in this Chapter referred to as the “Commission”)
which shall consist of nine members appointed by
the  President  on  the  recommendation  of  the
Constitutional Council, of whom not less than three
members shall be persons who have had over fifteen
years experience as a public officer. The President
on  the  recommendation  of  the  Constitutional
Council  shall  appoint  one  member  as  its
Chairman.”;

(2) by  the  repeal  of  paragraph  (4)  of  that  Article  and
the substitution therefor of the following paragraph:-

“(4) Every member of the Commission shall hold
office for a period of three years from the date of
appointment, unless the member becomes subject
to  any  disqualification  under  paragraph  (2)  or
earlier resigns from his office by writing addressed
to the President or is removed from office by the
President  with  the  approval  of  the  Constitutional
Council  or  is  convicted  by  a  court  of  law  of  any
offence involving moral turpitude or if a resolution
for  the  imposition  of  civic  disability  upon  the
member has been passed in terms of Article 81 or is
deemed to have vacated his office under paragraph
(6).”; and

22

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

(3) by the substitution, in paragraph (7) of that Article,
for the words and figures “subject to the provisions
of  Article  41 A,”  of  the  words  “on  the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council,”.

Amendment  of
Article  61E  of
the  Constitution

5.  Article 61E of the Constitution is hereby amended,
in paragraph (b) of that Article, by the substitution for the
words and figures “subject to the provisions of Article 41A,”
of  the  words  “on  the  approval  of  the  Constitutional
Council,”.

Replacement  of
Article  61F  of
the  Constitution

6. Article  61F  of  the  Constitution  is  hereby  repealed

and the following Article is substituted therefor:-

“Interpretation.

61F. For  the  purposes  of  this  Chapter,
“public officer” does not include a member of
the Army, Navy or Air Force, an officer of the
Election  Commission  appointed  by  such
Commission, a police officer appointed by the
National  Police  Commission,  a  scheduled
public officer appointed by the Judicial Service
Commission or a member of the Sri Lanka State
Audit Service appointed by the Audit Service
Commission.”.

Amendment  of
Article  65  of  the
Constitution

7. Article 65 of the Constitution is hereby amended as

follows:-

(1) by the substitution, in paragraph (1) of  that Article,
for the words and figures “subject to the provisions
of Article 41A,” of the words “on the approval of
the  Constitutional Council,”; and

(2) by the repeal of paragraph (6) of that Article, and
the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following
paragraph:-

“(6) Whenever the Secretary-General is unable
to  discharge  the  functions  of  his  office,  the

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

23

President  may,  subject  to  the  approval  of  the
Constitutional Council, appoint a person to act in
the place of the Secretary-General.”.

8. Article 91 of the Constitution is hereby amended in
sub-paragraph (d) of paragraph (1) of that Article as follows:-

Amendment  of
Article  91  of  the
Constitution

(1) by  the  substitution,  in  item  (iv)  of  that  sub-
paragraph, for the words and figures “referred to in
Schedule I to Article 41A,” of the words and figures
“referred to in the Schedule to Article 41B,”;

(2) by the insertion, immediately after item (va) of that

sub-paragraph, of the following item:-

“(vb) a  member  of  the  Constitutional  Council
referred to in sub-paragraph (e) of paragraph
(1) of Article 41A, other than any Member
of Parliament;”; and

(3) by the insertion, immediately after item (xii) of that

sub-paragraph, of the following item:-

“(xiii) a citizen of Sri Lanka who is also a citizen

of any other country;”.

9. Article 95 of the Constitution is hereby amended in
paragraph (2) of that Article, by the substitution for the words
and figures “paragraph (1) of this Article and subject to the
provisions of Article 41A, appoint”, of the words and figure
“paragraph  (1)  and  on  the  recommendation  of  the
Constitutional  Council,  appoint”.

Amendment  of
Article  95  of  the
Constitution

10. Article 103 of the Constitution is hereby amended

as follows:-

Amendment  of
Article  103  of
the  Constitution

(1) by the substitution, in paragraph (1) of that Article,
for the words and figures “subject to the provisions

24

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

of  Article  41A,”  of  the  words  “on  the
recommendation  of  the  Constitutional  Council,”;
and

(2) by the substitution, in paragraph (7) of that Article,
for the words and figures “subject to the provisions
of  Article  41A,”  of  the  words  “on  the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council,”.

Amendment  of
Article  104B  of
the  Constitution

11. Article 104B of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the repeal of sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph (5) of that
Article and the substitution therefor of the following sub-
paragraph:-

“(a)  The  Commission  shall  have  the  power  to
issue, from time to time, in respect of the holding of
any election or the conduct of a referendum, such
guidelines  as  the  Commission  may  consider
appropriate,  to  any  broadcasting  or  telecasting
operator  or  any  proprietor  or  any  publisher  of  a
newspaper, as the case may be, as the Commission
may  consider  necessary  to  ensure  a  free  and  fair
election.”.

Amendment  of
Article  107  of  the
Constitution

12. Article 107 of the Constitution is hereby amended
in paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution, for the
words and figures “subject to the provisions of Article 41A,”
of the words “subject to the approval of the Constitutional
Council,”.

Amendment  of
Article  109  of
the  Constitution

13. Article 109 of the Constitution is hereby amended

as follows:-

(1) by the substitution, in paragraph (1) of that Article,
for the words and figures “subject to the provisions
of Article 41A,” of the words “on the approval of
the  Constitutional  Council,”;  and

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

25

(2) by the substitution, in paragraph (2) of that Article,
for the words and figures “subject to the provisions
of Article 41A,” of the words “on the approval of
the  Constitutional  Council,”.

14. Article 111D of the Constitution is hereby amended

as follows:-

Amendment  of
Article
111D  of  the
Constitution

(1) by the substitution in paragraph (1) of that Article,
for the words and figures “subject to the provisions
of  Article  41A.”,  of  the  words  “subject  to  the
approval of the Constitutional Council.”; and

(2) by the substitution in paragraph (2) of that Article,
for the words “a judge of a Court of First Instance”
wherever those words occur in that paragraph, of
the words “a Magistrate or a District Judge”.

15. Article 111E of the Constitution is hereby amended
in paragraph (5) of that Article, by the substitution, for the
words and figures “subject to the provisions of Article 41A,”
of the words “subject to the approval of the Constitutional
Council,”.

Amendment  of
Article 111E  of
the  Constitution

16. Article 111M of the Constitution is herby amended
in  the  definition  of  the  expression  “judicial  officer”  in
paragraph (a) thereof, by the substitution for the words “Court
of  Appeal  or  of  the  High  Court”  of  the  words  “Court  of
Appeal”.”

Amendment  of
Article 111M  of
the  Constitution

17. Article 121 of the Constitution is hereby amended
in paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution, for the
words “within one week” of the words “within fourteen days”.

Amendment  of
Article 121  of
the  Constitution

26

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

Amendment  of
Article 153  of
the  Constitution

18. Article 153 of the Constitution is hereby amended as

follows:-

Insertion  of  new
Articles
153A,153B,
153C,153D,
153E,153F,  153G
and  153H  in  the
Constitution

(1) by the substitution, in paragraph (1) of that Article,
for the words and figures “subject to the provisions
of Article 41A,” of the words “subject to the approval
of the Constitutional Council,”; and

(2) by the substitution, in paragraph (4) of that Article,
for the words and figures “subject to the provisions
of Article 41A,” of the words “subject to the approval
of  the  Constitutional  Council,”.

19. The  following  new  Articles  are  hereby  inserted
immediately after Article 153 and shall have effect as Articles
153A, 153B, 153C, 153D, 153E, 153F, 153G and 153H of the
Constitution:-

“Constitution
of  the  Audit
Service
Commission.

153A. (1) There shall be an Audit Service
Commission (in this Chapter referred to as the
“Commission”),  which  shall  consist  of  the
Auditor-General who shall be the Chairman of
the Commission, and the following members
appointed  by 
the
recommendation  of  the  Constitutional
Council:-

the  President  on 

(a) two  retired  officers  of  the  Auditor-
General’s Department, who have held
office as a Deputy Auditor-General or
above;

(b) a retired judge of the Supreme Court,
the Court of Appeal or the High Court
of Sri Lanka; and

(c) a retired Class I officer of the Sri Lanka

Administrative Service.

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

27

(2)  A person appointed as a member of the
Commission shall hold office for three years,
unless  he–

(a) earlier resigns from his office, by letter

addressed to the President;

(b)

is  removed  from  office  as  hereinafter
provided;  or

(c)

 becomes a Member of Parliament or a
member  of  a  Provincial  Council  or  a
local  authority.

(3) A person appointed as a member of the
Commission shall be eligible to be appointed
for  a  further  term  of  office,  on  the
recommendation  of  the  Constitutional
Council.

(4)  The President may, for cause assigned
and  with  the  approval  of  the  Constitutional
Council,  remove  from  office  any  person
appointed  as  a  member  of  the  Commission
under paragraph (1).

(5) The Chairman and the members of the
Commission shall be paid such allowances as
are determined by Parliament. Such allowances
shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund and
shall  not  be  diminished  during  the  term  of
office of the Chairman or members.

(6) The Chairman and the members of the
Commission  shall  be  deemed  to  be  public
servants  within  the  meaning  and  for  the
purposes  of  Chapter  IX  of  the  Penal  Code
(Chapter 19).

(7)  There  shall  be  a  Secretary  to  the
Commission  who  shall  be  appointed  by  the
Commission.

28

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

Meetings  of

the

Commission.

153B.  (1)  The  quorum  for  any  meeting  of
the Commission shall be three members of the
Commission.

(2)  Parliament  shall,  subject  to  paragraph
(1),  provide  by  law  for  meetings  of  the
Commission,  the  establishment  of  the  Sri
Lanka  State  Audit  Service  and  such  other
matters connected with and incidental thereto.

Powers  and
functions  of
the
Commission.

153C.  (1)  The  powers  of  appointment,
promotion,  transfer,  disciplinary  control  and
dismissal of the members belonging to the Sri
Lanka State Audit Service, shall be vested in
the Commission.

(2)  The  Commission  shall  also  exercise,
perform and discharge the following powers,
duties and functions: -

(a) make  rules  pertaining  to  schemes  of
recruitment, the appointment, transfer,
disciplinary control and dismissal of the
members  belonging  to  the  Sri  Lanka
State  Audit  Service,  subject  to  any
policy  determined  by  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers pertaining to the same;

(b) prepare annual estimates of the National

Audit Office established by law; and

(c) exercise,  perform  and  discharge  such
other  powers,  duties  and  functions  as
may be provided for by law.

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

29

(3)  The  Commission  shall  cause  the  rules

made under paragraph (2) to be published in

the Gazette.

(4)  Every  such  rule  shall  come  into

operation  on  the  date  of  such  publication  or

on such later date as may be specified in such

rule.

(5)    Every  such  rule  shall,  within  three

months of such publication in the Gazette be

brought  before  Parliament  for  approval.  Any

rule  which  is  not  so  approved  shall  be

deemed  to  be  rescinded  as  from  the  date  of

such  disapproval,  but  without  prejudice  to

anything  previously  done  thereunder.

Influencing
or
attempting  to
influence
decision  of
the
Commission
or  any
officer  of  the
Sri  Lanka
State  Audit
Service,  to
be  an
offence.

153D. (1) A person who otherwise than in

the  course  of  his  duty,  directly  or  indirectly,

by himself or through any other person, in any

manner whatsoever, influences or attempts to

influence any decision of the Commission, any

member thereof or any officer of the Sri Lanka

State Audit Service, commits an offence and
shall  on  conviction  be  liable  to  a  fine  not

exceeding  one  hundred  thousand  rupees  or

to  imprisonment  for  a  term  not  exceeding

three  years  or  to  both  such  fine  and

imprisonment.

30

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

Immunity
from  legal
proceedings.

(2)  Every  High  Court  established  under
Article  154P  of  the  Constitution  shall  have
jurisdiction to hear and determine any matter
referred to in paragraph (1).

153E. Subject to the jurisdiction conferred
on the Supreme Court under Article 126 and to
the  powers  granted  to  the  Administrative
Appeals Tribunal under Article 153G, no court
or tribunal shall have the power or jurisdiction
to  inquire  into,  pronounce  upon  or  in  any
manner whatsoever call in question any order
or  decision  made  by  the  Commission,  in
pursuance  of  any  function  assigned  to  such
Commission under this Chapter or under any
law.

Costs  and
expenses.

153F.    The  costs  and  expenses  of  the
Commission  shall  be  a  charge  on  the
Consolidated  Fund.

Appeals  to
the
Administrative
Appeals
Tribunal.

153G.  Any  officer  of  the  Sri  Lanka  State
Audit Service who is aggrieved by any order
relating  to  the  appointment,  promotion  or
transfer  of  such  officer  or  any  order  on  a
disciplinary  matter  or  dismissal  made  by  the
Commission,  in  respect  of  such  officer,  may
appeal  therefrom  to  the  Administrative
Appeals Tribunal established under Article 59,
which  shall  have  the  power  to  alter,  vary,
rescind or confirm any order or decision made
by the Commission.

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

31

Commission
to  be
answerable  to
Parliament.

153H. The Commission shall be responsible
and  answerable  to  Parliament  in  accordance
with the provisions of the Standing Orders of
Parliament  for  the  discharge  of  its  functions
and  shall  forward  to  Parliament  in  each
calendar year a report of its activities in such
year.”.

     20.  Article 154 of the Constitution is hereby amended
in paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for the
words  and  figures  “the  Parliamentary  Council,  the
Commissions referred to in Schedule I to Article 41A,” of the
words  and  figures  “the  Constitutional  Council,  the
Commissions referred to in the Schedule to Article 41B,”.

Amendment  of
Article 154  of
the  Constitution

21. Article 154R of the Constitution is hereby amended
in sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph (1) of that Article, by the
substitution  for  the  words  and  figures  “subject  to  the
provisions  of  Article  41 A,”  of  the  words  “on  the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council,”.

Amendment  of
Article 154R  of
the  Constitution

22. Article 155A of the Constitution is hereby amended
in paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for the
words and figures “subject to the provisions of Article 41A,”
of the words “on the recommendation of the Constitutional
Council,”.

Amendment  of
Article 155A  of
the  Constitution

 23. Article 155B of the Constitution is hereby amended,
by  the  insertion,  immediately  after  paragraph  (4)  of  that
Article, of following paragraph:-

Amendment  of
Article 155B  of
the  Constitution

“(5) The Inspector-General of Police shall be entitled
to be present at meetings of the Commission, except
where any matter relating to him is being considered.
He shall have no right to vote at such meetings.”.

32

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

Amendment  of
Article  155C  of
the  Constitution

24.  Article 155C of the Constitution is hereby amended,
by  the  substitution,  for  the  words  and  figures  “under
paragraph (1) of Article 126,” of the words and figures “under
paragraph (1) of Article 126 and the powers granted to the
Administrative Appeals Tribunal under Article 155L,”.

Insertion  of
newArticles
155G,155H,
155J,155K  and
155L  in  the
Constitution

25.  The  following  new  Articles  are  hereby  inserted
immediately  after  Article  155FFF  and  shall  have  effect  as
Articles 155G, 155H, 155J, 155K and 155L respectively, of
the  Constitution:  -

“Powers  of
the
Commission.

155G. (1)(a) The appointment, promotion,
transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of
police officers other than the Inspector-General
of Police, shall be vested in the Commission.
The Commission shall exercise its powers of
promotion,  transfer,  disciplinary  control  and
dismissal  in  consultation  with  the  Inspector-
General of Police.

(b)  The  Commission  shall  not  in  the
exercise  of  its  powers  under  this  Article,
derogate  from  the  powers  and  functions
assigned  to  the  Provincial  Police  Service
Commissions as and when such Commissions
are  established  under  Chapter  XVIIA  of  the
Constitution.

(2)  The  Commission  shall  establish
procedures to entertain and investigate public
complaints  and  complaints  of  any  aggrieved
person  made  against  a  police  officer  or  the
police service, and provide redress as provided
by  law.  In  the  event  of  the  Commission
providing  redress,  the  Commission  shall
forthwith  inform  the  Inspector-General  of
Police.

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

33

(3) The Commission shall, in consultation
with the Inspector-General of Police, provide
for and determine all matters regarding police
officers, including-

(a)

(b)

(c)

the  formulation  of  schemes  of
recruitment,  promotion  and
transfer,  subject  to  any  policy
determined  by  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers pertaining to the same;

training and the improvement of
the efficiency and independence
of the police service;

the nature and type of the arms,
ammunition and other equipment
necessary  for  the  use  of  the
National  Division  and  the
Provincial  Divisions;  and

(d)

codes of conduct and disciplinary
procedures.

(4) The Commission shall exercise all such
powers  and  discharge  and  perform  all  such
duties and functions as are vested in it under
Appendix  I  of  List  I  contained  in  the  Ninth
Schedule  to  the  Constitution.

Delegation  of
certain
powers  of  the
Commission
to  a
Committee.

155H.  (1)  The  Commission  may  delegate
to  a  Committee  of  the  Commission  (not
consisting of members of the Commission) as
shall  be  nominated  by  the  Commission,  the
powers  of  appointment,  promotion,  transfer,
disciplinary  control  and  dismissal  of  such
categories of police officers as are specified by
the Commission.

34

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

Delegation  of
certain
functions  by
the
Commission.

Right  of
appeal.

(2)  The  Commission  shall  cause  to  be
published  in  the Gazette,  the  appointment  of
any such Committee.

(3) The procedure and quorum for meetings
of  a  Committee  nominated  under  paragraph
(1)  shall  be  according  to  rules  made  by  the
Commission. The Commission shall cause such
rules to be published in the Gazette.

155J. (1) The Commission may, subject to
such  conditions  and  procedures  as  may  be
specified by the Commission, delegate to the
Inspector-General of Police or in consultation
with  the  Inspector-General  of  Police  to  any
police  officer,  its  powers  of  appointment,
promotion,  transfer,  disciplinary  control  and
dismissal of any category of police officers.

(2) The Commission shall cause any such

delegation to be published in the Gazette.

155K.  (1)  Where  the  Commission  has
delegated  under  Article  155J  to  any  police
officer its powers of appointment, promotion,
transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of
any category of police officers, the Inspector-
General of Police shall have a right of appeal
to the Commission against any order made by
such police officer in the exercise of the powers
delegated to him.

(2) A police officer aggrieved by any order
relating to promotion, transfer or any order on
a  disciplinary  matter  or  dismissal  made  by  a
Committee or the Inspector-General of Police
or a police officer referred to in Articles 155H

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

35

and 155J in respect of such officer may appeal
to  the  Commission  against  such  order  in
the
accordance  with  rules  made  by 
Commission, from time to time, regulating the
procedure and the period fixed for the making
and hearing of an appeal by the Commission.

(3) The Commission shall have the power
to  alter,  vary,  rescind  or  confirm  such  order
upon an appeal made under paragraph (1) or
paragraph (2), or to give directions in relation
thereto or to order such further or other inquiry,
as the Commission shall deem fit.

(4)  The  Commission  shall,  from  time  to
time, cause to be published in the Gazette, rules
made by it under paragraph (2) of this Article.

(5) Upon any delegation of its powers to a
Committee or the Inspector-General of Police
or police officer under Articles 155H and 155J,
the  Commission  shall  not,  whilst  such
delegation  is  in  force,  exercise,  perform  or
discharge  its  powers,  duties  or  functions  in
respect of the categories of police officers in
respect  of  which  such  delegation  is  made,
subject  to  the  right  of  appeal  hereinbefore
provided.

155L. Any police officer aggrieved by any
order relating to promotion, transfer or any order
on a disciplinary matter or dismissal made by
the  Commission  in  terms  of  Article  155K,  in
respect of such officer, may appeal therefrom
to  the  Administrative  Appeals  Tribunal
established under Article 59, which shall have
the power to alter, vary, rescind or confirm any
order or decision made by the Commission.”.

Appeals  to
Administrative
Appeals
Tribunal.

36

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

26. Article 155M of the Constitution is hereby repealed

and the following Article is substituted therefor:-

Replacement
of  Article
155M  of  the
Constitution

“Saving  of
existing  rules
and
regulations.

155M.  Until  the  Commission  otherwise
provides, all rules, regulations and procedures
relating to the Police Force as are in force on
the  date  of  the  coming  into  operation  of  this
Article, shall continue to be operative and in
force.”.

27. Article 156 of the Constitution is hereby amended as

follows: -

Amendment
of  Article
156  of  the
Constitution

(1) by the substitution, in paragraph (2) of that Article,
for the words and figures “subject to the provisions
of Article 41A,” of the words “subject to the approval
of the Constitutional Council,”; and

(2) by the substitution, in paragraph (5) of that Article,
for the words and figures “subject to the provisions
of Article 41A,” of the words “subject to the approval
of  the  Constitutional  Council,”.

28.  The  following  new  Chapters  are  hereby  inserted
immediately  after  Chapter  XIX  and  shall  have  effect  as
Chapter XIXA and Chapter XIXB of the Constitution: -

Insertion  of
new  Chapters
XIXA  and
XIXB  in  the
Constitution

“CHAPTER XIXA

COMMISSION TO INVESTIGATE ALLEGATIONS OF BRIBERY OR
CORRUPTION

Commission
to  investigate
bribery  or
corruption.

156A. (1) Parliament shall by law provide
for  the  establishment  of  a  Commission  to
investigate allegations of bribery or corruption.
Such law shall provide for–

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

37

(a)

(b)

the  appointment  of  the  members
of  the  Commission  by  the
President on the recommendation
of  the  Constitutional  Council;

the  powers  of  the  Commission,
including the power to direct the
holding  of  a  preliminary  inquiry
or the making of an investigation
into  an  allegation  of  bribery  or
corruption,  whether  of  its  own
motion or on a complaint made to
it,  and  the  power  to  institute
prosecutions  for  offences  under
the law in force relating to bribery
or corruption; and

(c) measures to implement the United
Nations  Convention  Against
Corruption  and  any  other
International Convention relating
to  the  prevention  of  corruption,
to which Sri Lanka is a party.

(2)  Until  Parliament  so  provides,  the
Commission  to  Investigate  Allegations  of
Bribery or Corruption Act, No. 19 of 1994 shall
apply, subject to the modification that it shall
be lawful for the Commission appointed under
that  Act,  to  inquire  into,  or  investigate,  an
allegation of bribery or corruption, whether on
its own motion or on a written complaint made
to it.

38

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

National
Procurement
Commission.

CHAPTER XIXB

NATIONAL PROCUREMENT COMMISSION

156 B.  (1)  There  shall  be  a  National
Procurement  Commission  (in  this  Chapter
referred to as the “Commission”) consisting of
five  members  appointed  by  the  President  on
the  recommendation  of  the  Constitutional
Council, of whom at least three members shall
be persons who have had proven experience in
procurement,  accountancy,  law  or  public
administration.  The  President  shall,  on  the
recommendation  of  the  Constitutional
Council, appoint one member as the Chairman
of the Commission.

(2) Every  member  of  the  Commission
shall hold office for a period of three years from
the date of appointment, unless such member
earlier resigns from office by a writing addressed
to the President or is removed from office by
the  President  for  causes  assigned  with  the
approval  of  the  Constitutional  Council  or  is
convicted  by  a  court  of  law  for  an  offence
involving  moral  turpitude  or  is  elected  as  a
Member  of  Parliament  or  as  a  member  of  a
Provincial Council or of a local authority or if
a  resolution  for  the  imposition  of  a  civic
disability    on    him    is    passed    in    terms    of
Article 81.

(3) The Chairman and every member of the
Commission shall be paid such allowances as
may  be  determined  by  a  resolution  of
Parliament. Such allowances shall be charged
on  the  Consolidated  Fund  and  shall  not  be
diminished during the term of office of such
Chairman or the member.

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

39

Functions  of
the
Commission.

156C.  (1)  It  shall  be  the  function  of  the
Commission  to  formulate  fair,  equitable,
transparent,  competitive  and  cost  effective
procedures and guidelines, for the procurement
of  goods  and  services,  works,  consultancy
services  and  information  systems  by
government  institutions  and  cause  such
guidelines to be published in the Gazette and
within three months of such publication, to be
placed before Parliament.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of
paragraph  (1),  it  shall  be  the  function  of  the
Commission to –

(a) monitor  and  report  to  the
appropriate  authorities,  on
whether all procurement of goods
and services, works, consultancy
services and information systems
by  government  institutions  are
based  on  procurement  plans
prepared  in  accordance  with
previously  approved  action
plans;

(b) monitor  and  report  to  the
appropriate  authorities  on
whether all qualified bidders for
the  provision  of  goods  and
services,  works,  consultancy
services and information systems
by  government  institutions  are
afforded an equal opportunity to
participate in the bidding process
for the provision of those goods
and services, works, consultancy
services and information systems;

40

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

(c) monitor  and  report  to  the
appropriate  authorities  on
whether  the  procedures  for  the
selection of contractors, and the
awarding  of  contracts  for  the
provision of goods and services,
works,  consultancy  services
and  information    systems    to
government institutions, are fair
and  transparent;

(d)

(e)

report  on  whether  members
of  Procurement  Committees
and  Technical  Evaluation
Committees  relating  to  the
procurements,  appointed  by
government  institutions  are
suitably  qualified;  and

r e p o r t s  

o f
i n v e s t i g a t e  
p r o c u r e m e n t s   m a d e   b y
government  institutions  outside
established  procedures  and
guidelines,  and  to  report  the
officers  responsible  for  such
procurements  to  the  relevant
authorities for necessary action.

Powers  of  the
Commission.

156D. (1) The Commission may, by Notice

in writing, require any person to–

(a)

attend  before  the  Commission,
t o   b e   q u e s t i o n e d   b y   t h e
Commission;

(b) produce to the Commission, any
document  or  thing  in  the
possession  or  control  of  that
person  and  specified  in  such
Notice.

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

41

(2) Every person who–

(a)

(b)

(c)

fails, without reasonable cause to
appear  before  the  Commission
when  required  to  do  so  by  a
Notice  sent  to  him  under
paragraph (1);

appears  before  the  Commission
in compliance with such a Notice,
but  refuses  without  reasonable
cause,  to  answer  any  questions
put  to  him  by  the  Commission;
or

f a i l s   o r   r e f u s e s ,   w i t h o u t
reasonable cause, to produce any
document or thing which he was
required to produce by a Notice
sent to him under paragraph (1),

commits an offence and shall on conviction be
liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one  hundred
thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding seven years, or to both such fine
and imprisonment.

(3)  Every  High  Court  established  under
Article  154P  of  the  Constitution  shall  have
jurisdiction to hear and determine any matter
referred to in paragraph (2).

Meetings  of
the
Commission.

156E. (1) The Commission shall meet as
often as may be necessary for the discharge of
its functions.

42

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

(2)  The  Chairman  shall  preside  at  all
meetings of the Commission. In the absence of
the  Chairman  from  any  meeting  of  the
Commission, the members present shall elect a
Chairman  for  that  meeting,  from  among
themselves.

(3)  The  quorum  for  any  meeting  of  the

Commission shall be three.

(4) Decisions of the Commission shall be
by  the  majority  vote  of  the  members  present
and voting at the meeting at which the decision
is  taken,  and  in  the  event  of  an  equality  of
votes,  the  Chairman  or  member  presiding  at
the meeting shall have a casting vote.

(5) Subject to the preceding provisions of
this  Article,  the  Commission  may  determine
the procedure with regard to its meetings and
the transaction of business at such meetings.

(6) The Commission shall have the power
to  act  notwithstanding  any  vacancy  in  the
membership  of  the  Commission,  and  no  act,
proceeding or decision of the Commission shall
be invalid or deemed to be invalid, by reason
only  of  such  vacancy  or  defect  in  the
appointment of a member.

Staff  of  the
Commission.

156F. (1) The Commission shall appoint a
Secretary-General and such other officers as it
may consider necessary for the proper discharge
of its functions, on such terms and conditions
as may be determined by the Commission.

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

43

Expenses  of
the  Commis-
sion  to  be
charged  on
the  Consoli-
dated  Fund.

Interpretation.

(2)  All  members  and  officers  of  the
Commission  shall  be  deemed  to  be  public
servants  within  the  meaning,  and  for  the
purposes  of,  Chapter  IX  of  the  Penal  Code
(Chapter 19).

(3)  No  suit,  prosecution  or  other
proceeding  shall  lie  against  any  member  or
officer of the Commission for any act or thing
which in good faith is done or purported to be
done by him in the performance of his duties
or  the  discharge  of  his  functions,  under  the
Constitution.

156G.  The  expenses  of  the  Commission

shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.

156H.  In  this  Chapter,  “government
institution” includes the office of the Secretary
to the President, the office of the Secretary to
the Prime Minister, the office of the Secretary
to the Cabinet of Ministers, the offices of the
Ministers  appointed  under  Article  44  or  45,
the  Judicial  Service  Commission,  the
Constitutional  Council,  the  Commissions
referred  to  in  the  Schedule  to  Article  41B,
the  Parliamentary  Commissioner  for
Administration,  the  Secretary-General
of  Parliament,  Ministries,  Government
Departments,  Provincial  Councils,  local
Authorities, Public  Corporations, business or
other  undertakings  vested  in  the  government
under  any  written  law  and  Companies
registered or deemed to be registered under the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, in which the
government,  a  public  corporation  or  local

44

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

authority holds more than fifty per centum of
the shares of that company.”.

29. Article 170 of the Constitution is hereby amended by
the repeal of the definition of the expression “public officer”
and the substitution therefor of the following definition: -

Amendment
of
Article 170
of  the
Constitution

“public officer” means a person who holds any paid office
under the Republic, other than a judicial officer,
but does not include –

(a)

the President;

(b)

the Prime Minister;

(c)

the Speaker;

(d)

a Minister appointed under Article 44 or 45;

(e)

a  Deputy  Minister  appointed  under
Article 46;

(f)

a Member of Parliament;

(g)

a member of the Constitutional Council;

(h)

a  member  of  the  Judicial  Service
Commission;

(i)

the  Chairman  or  a  member  of  any
Commission referred to in Article 41B;

(j)

the Secretary-General of Parliament;

(k)

(l)

a  member  of  the  staff  of  the  Secretary-
General of Parliament;

a  member  of  the  University  Grants
Commission;

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

45

(m)

a  member  of  the  Official  Languages
Commission;

(n)

the Auditor-General; and

(o)

the  Governor  of  the  Central  Bank  of
Sri Lanka.”.

30. (1) (a) The ninth Parliament in existence on the day
preceding the date on which this Act comes into operation,
shall,  unless  dissolved  earlier  continue  to  function  until
August 19, 2025 and shall thereafter stand dissolved.

Transitional
provisions

(b)  The  persons  holding  office  respectively  as  the
President and the Prime Minister on the day preceding the
date on which this Act comes into operation, shall continue
to hold office after such date subject to the provisions of the
Constitution.

(2) Every person holding office on the day preceding the

date on which this Act comes into operation, as–

(a)

the Chief Justice;

(b)

the Judges of the Supreme Court;

(c)

the members of the Judicial Service Commission;

(d)

the President of the Court of Appeal;

(e)

the Judges of the Court of Appeal;

(f)

the Attorney-General;

(g)

the Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka;

(h)

the Auditor-General;

46

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

(i)

the Inspector-General of Police;

(j)

the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration
(Ombudsman);

(k)

the Secretary-General of Parliament;

(l)

the Judges of the High Court; or

(m)

the  judicial  officers,  scheduled  public  officers,
public officers or police officers,

shall  continue  to  hold  such  office  and  shall,  subject  to
paragraph (3) of Article 41C, continue to exercise, perform
and discharge the powers, duties and functions of that office,
under the same terms and conditions.

(3) Every person holding office on the day preceding the
date on which this Act comes into operation, as a member of
the  Parliamentary  Council  shall  cease  to  hold  office  as  a
member of the Parliamentary Council with effect from the
date on which this Act comes into operation.

(4) Every person holding office on the day preceding the
date on which this Act comes into operation, as the Chairman
or a member of –

(a)

the Election Commission;

(b)

the Public Service Commission;

(c)

the National Police Commission;

(d)

the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka;

(e)

the  Commission  to  Investigate  Allegations  of
Bribery or Corruption;

(f)

the Finance Commission; and

(g)

the Delimitation Commission,

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

47

shall cease to hold such office with effect from the date on
which this Act comes into operation:

Provided  however,  a  person  holding  office  on  the  day
preceding the date on which this Act comes into operation,
as a Chairman or a member of any such Commission referred
to  above  may  continue  to  exercise  and  discharge  powers
and functions of their respective offices until such date on
which  the  respective  Commissions  are  constituted  in
accordance with Chapter VIIA of the Constitution.

(5) All matters relating to–

(a)

the appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary
control and  dismissal of police officers; and

(b) appeals  by  police  officers  to  the  Public  Service

Commission,

pending before the Public Service Commission on the day
preceding the date on which this Act comes into operation,
shall,  with  effect  from  that  date,  stand  transferred  to  the
National  Police  Commission  established  by  Article  155A
and shall be determined by the National Police Commission
accordingly.

(6) All matters relating to the appointment, promotion,
transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of members of
the Sri Lanka State Audit Service and pending before the
Public Service Commission on the day preceding the date
on which this Act comes into operation, shall, with effect
from  that  date,  stand  transferred  to  the  Audit  Service
Commission  established  by  Article  153A  and  shall  be
determined by the Audit Service Commission accordingly.

     31. For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that-

Avoidance  of
doubt

(a) where there is a requirement in any written law to
obtain  the  recommendation  or  approval  of  the

48

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

Parliamentary  Council  on  the  day  preceding  the
date  on  which  this  Act  comes  into  operation,  the
reference to the Parliamentary Council shall be read
and construed as a reference to the Constitutional
Council with effect from the date on which this Act
comes into operation; and

(b) any Member of the ninth Parliament in existence
on  the  day  preceding  the  date  on  which  this  Act
comes  into  operation,  who  is  subject  to  the
disqualification  specified  in  item  (xiii)  of  sub-
paragraph (d) of paragraph (1) of Article 91 of the
Constitution shall not be qualified to sit and vote
in Parliament with effect from the date on which
this Act comes into operation.

32. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution

49

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

