PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

————————

AL FALAH FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Al Falah Foundation

————————

Presented by Hon. A. H. M. Fowzie, M.P.
for Colombo District on 25th of April, 2024

(Published in the Gazette on April 04, 2024)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

[Bill No. 251]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Al  Falah  Foundation  (Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE AL FALAH FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Al Falah
Foundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the
purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all objects
and matters  connected with the said foundation according
to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  foundation  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such  application:

BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Al  Falah  Foundation

Short  title

(Incorporation) Act, No.   of  2024.

Incorporation
of  the
Al  Falah
Foundation

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Al Falah
Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or
shall  hereafter  be  admitted  as  members  of  the  Corporation
hereby constituted shall be a body corporate  with perpetual
succession under the name and style of  “Al Falah Foundation”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and by that name
may sue and be sued and have  full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

5

10

15

20

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

25

constituted are hereby declared to be—

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

2

Al  Falah  Foundation  (Incorporation)

(a) to  promote  education  in  skills  development  at  all

level;

(b) to establish information technology centers for the

advancement of scientific studies;

5

(c) to  provide  self-employment  opportunities  for

unemployed;

(d) to  participate  in  social,  cultural  and  economic

development of the Country; and

(e) to assist and support humanitarian activities.

10

15

4.

(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being  of the Corporation be administered by a Committee
of Management consisting of not more than eleven members
including  of  Chairman,  Secretary,  Treasurer  elected  in
accordance with such rules.

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the
Corporation

(2) The First Committee of Management shall consists of
the members of the Committee of Management holding office
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act.

20

25

30

5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written  law,  the    Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform  and  execute  all  such  acts,  matters  and  things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the  Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
moveable,  to  open,  operate  and  close  bank  accounts,  to
borrow or raise moneys with or without security  or collect
or accept grants and donations, to invest funds and to engage,
employ and dismiss officers and servants required for the
carrying out of the objects of the  Corporation.

General
Powers  of  the
Corporation

Al  Falah  Foundation  (Incorporation)

3

6.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting of the members and by a majority
of not less than two-thirds of the members present  to make
rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, on all or any of the following matters:—

5

Rules  of  the
Corporation

10

15

20

(a) the  classification  of  members  and  the  admission,
withdrawal, resignation, expulsion of members;

(b) the election of office bearers, the resignation from,
vacation of or removal from office of office-bearers
and their powers, conduct and duties;

(c) the election of the members of the Committee  of
Management  and  its  powers,  conduct  and  duties
and term of the Committee members;

(d) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and  holding  of  meetings  of  the  Committee  of
Management  or  sub  Committee  and  of  the  time,
places,  notices  and  agenda  of  such  meetings,  the
quorum thereof and the conduct of business thereof;

(e) the  powers,  conduct,  duties  and  functions  of  the
various  officers,  agents  and  servants  of  the
Corporation;

(f) the administration and management of the porperty
of the Corporation, the custody of its fund and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and

25

(g) the  management  of  the  affairs  of  the  Corporation

and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the  Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

4

Al  Falah  Foundation  (Incorporation)

(3) Every member of the  Corporation shall be subject to

the rules of the  Corporation.

7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall be
paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby constituted
and all debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Foundation on that date shall be paid to the  Corportion
for the purposes of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Foundation

8.

(1) Corporation shall have its own fund and all moneys
heretofore  or  hereafter  to  be  received  by  way  of    gifts,
bequests,  donations,    subscriptions,  contributions,  fees  or
grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited
to the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Committee of Management shall determine.

Fund  of  the
Corporation

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

9.    The  Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire  and  hold  any  property,  movable  and  immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and
all such property shall be held by the  Corporation for the
purposes of this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation
made under section 6, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

10.

If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the    Corporation  there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the  Corporation, but shall

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

5

10

15

20

25

30

Al  Falah  Foundation  (Incorporation)

5

be  given  or  transferred  to  some  other  institution  or
institutions having objects similar to those of the  Corporation
and  which,  is  or  are  by  its  or  their  rules    prohibited  from
distributing any income or property among their members.

5

11.

(1)  The  financial  year  of  the  Corporation  shall  be

the calendar year.

(2)  The  Corporation  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to  be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transaction of  the  Corporation.

Audit  and
accounts  of
the
Corporation

10

(3)  The  accounts  of  the  Corporation  shall  be  audited  in
every  year  by  the  Auditor-General  or  a  qualified  auditor
appointed by the Auditor-General.

(4) In this section “a qualified auditor” means–

(a)

(b)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of  Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or  any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practise as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute; or

a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka,  or  any  other  institute
established by law possesses a certificate to practise
as  an  Accountant  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
Institute.

12. The Seal of the  Corporation shall not be affixed to
any  instrument  whatsoever    except  in  the  presence  of  two
members of the Committee of Management, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any person
as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation

15

20

25

30

6

Al  Falah  Foundation  (Incorporation)

13. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic,  or
corporate or of any other persons.

5

14.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

Al  Falah  Foundation  (Incorporation)

7

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

