PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OF WORKMEN 
(SPECIAL  PROVISIONS)  (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 23 OF 2022

[Certified on 16th of September, 2022]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 16, 2022

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Termination of Employment of Workmen
(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2022

1

[Certified on 16th of September, 2022]

L.D.—O. 24/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OF WORKMEN

(SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT, NO. 45 OF 1971

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Termination  of
Employment  of  Workmen  (Special  Provisions)
(Amendment) Act,  No. 23 of 2022.

Short  title

2. Section  2  of  the  Termination  of  Employment  of
Workmen  (Special  Provisions)  Act,  No.  45  of  1971
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended as follows:—

Amendment  of
section  2  of  Act,
No.  45  of  1971

(1)

in  subsection  (3)  thereof,  by  the  substitution  for
the  words  “fine  not  exceeding  one  thousand
rupees” of the words “fine not exceeding twenty
thousand  rupees”;

(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (3)

thereof, of the following:–

“(3A) (1) Where an employer is convicted of an
offence under subsection (3), such employer shall
be liable, if he continuously fails to comply with
the decision made by the Commissioner-General
under  subsection  (2),  to  pay  the  workman,  in
addition to any fine imposed under subsection (3),
an additional fine of five hundred rupees for each
day on which the noncompliance is continued after
the  conviction.

(2)  Where  any  employer  fails  to  pay  any  sum
payable  to  a  workman  under  paragraph  (e)  of
subsection (2), such amount may be recovered by

2

Termination of Employment of Workmen
(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2022

an  order  of  a  Magistrate’s  Court  by  which  the
employer was convicted as if it were a fine imposed
on  him  by  that  court,  and  the  amount  recovered
shall be paid to the workman.”.

Amendment  of
section  8  of  the
principal
enactment

3. Section  8  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) thereof, by the
substitution for the words “a fine of fifty rupees” of the words
“a fine of five hundred rupees”.

Insertion  of  new
sections  10A  and
10B  in  the
principal
enactment

4. The  following  new  sections  are  hereby  inserted
immediately after section 10 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as sections 10A and 10B of that enactment:—

“Employer  to
furnish  a
security  in
respect  of  an
application  to
the  High
Court

10A. (1) Where an employer is dissatisfied
with an order of the Magistrate’s Court, such
employer may make an application in revision
by a written petition, against that order to the
High Court established under Article 154P of
the Constitution, to the Province within which
such Magistrate’s Court is situated.

(2)  Every  employer  who  makes  an
application under subsection (1) shall furnish
to such Magistrate’s Court, a security in cash
where the order which is the subject of such
application  directs  the  payment  of  a  sum  of
money to the workman, of an amount equal to
such sum.

(3)  Every  application  made  under
subsection  (1)  shall  be  supported  by  a
certificate under the hand of the Registrar of
the  relevant  Magistrate’s  Court,  to  the  effect
that the security as specified in subsection (2)
has been duly furnished by such employer.

Termination of Employment of Workmen
(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2022

3

(4) The Registrar of the Magistrate’s Court
shall cause all such sum of money furnished as
security under subsection (2), to be sent to the
Commissioner General to deposit in an account
bearing 
the
Commissioner General, in any approved bank
in Sri Lanka.

interest,  maintained  by 

Employer  to
furnish  a
security  in
respect  of  an
application  to
the  Court  of
Appeal

10B. (1) Where an employer is dissatisfied
with an order made by Commissioner-General
under section 6 or 6A, such employer may make
an application to the Court of Appeal against
such order for the issue of an order in the nature
of a writ.

(2)  Every  employer  who  makes  an
application under subsection (1) for the issue
of an order in the nature of a writ shall furnish
to the Court of Appeal, a security in cash, where
the  order  which  is  the  subject  of  such
application  directs–

(a) both the payment of a sum of money as
compensation and the reinstatment, of
an amount of money, as salary or wages
which is to be calculated from the date
of such order to the date on which such
workman  shall  be  reinstated,  and  an
amount  of  twelve  times  the  monthly
salary  or  wages  of  such  workman  for
the reinstatement; and

(b) only the payment of a sum of money to
the  workman  as  compensation,  of  an
amount equal to such sum.

4

Termination of Employment of Workmen
(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2022

(3)  Every  application  for  the  issue  of  an
order  in  the  nature  of  a  writ,  made  under
subsection  (1)  shall  be  supported  by  a
certificate under the hand of the Commissioner-
General  to  the  effect  that  the  security  as
specified  in  subsection  (2)  has  been  duly
furnished by such employer.

(4) The Commissioner-General shall cause
to  be  deposited  the  sum  as  specified  in
subsection (2), in an account bearing interest,
maintained by the Commissioner-General, in
any approved bank in Sri Lanka.

(5) The Commissioner-General shall refund
the sum furnished under subsection (2) together
with the interest on such sum to the relevant
party in terms of the final  determination of the
application  to  the  Court  of  Appeal  or  the
Superme Court, as the case may be.”.

Amendment  of
section  14  of  the
principal
enactment

5. Section  14  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  by  the  substitution  for  the  words  “fine  not
exceeding  one  thousand  rupees”  of  the  words  “fine  not
exceeding twenty thousand rupees”.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

6.

In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Termination of Employment of Workmen
(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2022

5

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

