PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

FINANCE  ACT,  No.  21  OF  2019

[Certified on 31st of  October, 2019]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 01, 2019

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

1

[Certified on 31st of October, 2019]

L.D.—O. 15/2019

AN ACT TO AMEND THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 35 OF 2018; TO PROVIDE
FOR THE IMPOSITION OF A FOREIGN COMMERCIAL TRANSACTIONS
LEVY; AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
AND  INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:–

1. This Act may be cited as the Finance Act, No. 21 of

Short  title.

2019.

PART  I

AMENDMENT OF PART VII OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 35 OF 2018

2. Section  23  of  the  Finance  Act,  No.  35  of  2018  is
hereby amended by the substitution for the definition of the
expression  “specified  motor  vehicle”  of  the  following
definition:—

Amendment  of
section  23  of
Act,
No.  35  of  2018.

“ “specified motor vehicle”—

(a)

in  relation  to  a  vehicle  of  which  the  first
registration  falls  prior  to  November  1,  2019,
means  any  assembled  or  unassembled  diesel
motor  vehicle  of  which  the  cylinder  capacity
exceeds 2,300 CC or a petrol motor vehicle of
which the cylinder capacity exceeds 1,800 CC
or an electric vehicle of which motor power of
the engine exceeds 200 Kw, but shall not include
a  dual  purpose  petrol  motor  vehicle  of  which
the cylinder capacity does not exceed 2,200 CC,
a  dual  purpose  electric  motor  vehicle,  a  van,
a single cab or a wagon;

2

Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

(b)

in  relation  to  a  vehicle  of  which  the  first
registration falls on or after November 1, 2019,
means  any  assembled  or  unassembled  motor
vehicle,  but  does  not  include  a  van,  a  single
cab, a double cab, a motor cycle, a motor tricycle,
a motor ambulance, a motor hearse, a lorry, a
tractor,  a  hand  tractor,  a  trailer  or  any  motor
vehicle for transport of goods, as identified under
the  harmonized  commodity  description  and
coding system numbers provided in terms of the
Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235).”.

PART  II

AMENDMENT OF PART XI OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 35 OF 2018

Amendment  of
section  40  of
Act,
No.  35  of  2018.

3. Section  40  of  the  Finance  Act,  No.  35  of  2018
(hereinafter  in  this  Part  referred  to  as  the  “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended by the repeal of subsection
(1)  thereof  and  the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following
subsection:—

“(1)  There  shall  be  levied  a  tax  to  be  called  the
“Carbon Tax” (hereinafter in this Part referred to as “the
tax”) for the period commencing from January 1, 2019
and ending on November 30, 2019, from the registered
owner  of  every  motor  vehicle  specified  in  the  Third
Schedule hereto, at the rates specified in that Schedule:

Provided  however,  the  tax  payable  under  this
subsection shall not be levied in respect of any motor
vehicle  registered  for  the  first  time  within  the  period
commencing  from  January  1,  2019  and  ending  on
November 30, 2019, in terms of the Motor Traffic Act
(Chapter 203).”.

Amendment  of
section  41  of  the
principal
enactment.

4. Section  41  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  by  the  repeal  of  subsection  (1)  thereof  and  the
substitution therefor of the following new subsection:—

“(1) The tax payable under subsection (1) of section
40, shall be paid by the registered owner of any relevant
motor vehicle, to the Divisional Secretary, on or before
the due date of renewal of annual registration.”.

Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

3

PART  III

AMENDMENT OF PART XII OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 35 OF 2018

5. Section  46  of  the  Finance  Act,  No.  35  of  2018  is
hereby repealed and the following new section is substituted
therefor:—

Replacement  of
section  46  of
Act,  No.  35  of
2018.

“Recovery  of
the  levy  in
default.

46. (1) Where the amount of the levy or part
thereof is in default, the defaulter shall be liable
to  pay  to  the  Commission,  in  addition  to  the
levy in default, a surcharge calculated—

(a)

(b)

at  the  rate  of  ten  per  centum  of  the
amount of such levy as is in default
for  the  subsequent  period  of  one
month  or  part  thereof,  from  the  due
date for the payment of the levy under
section 44; and

at the rate of two per centum of the
amount of such levy as is in default
for  the  subsequent  period  of  one
month  or  part  thereof,  from  the  due
date  for  the  payment  specified  in
paragraph (a),

which  surcharge  shall  be  collected  by  the
Commission.

(2)  The  Commission  shall  take  action  to
recover any levy which is in default for a period
of  more  than  three  months,  along  with  the
amount  of  the  surcharge  accrued  thereon,  in
the manner as is specified hereafter.

(3) The Commission shall cause to be issued
on  the  defaulter,  a  Notice,  informing  the
defaulter  of  the  intention  of  the  Commission
to institute proceedings for the recovery of the
amount of the levy in default and the surcharge
accrued thereon in terms of the provisions of
this section unless such levy and the surcharge
thereon is paid within a period of three weeks
of the date of issue of such Notice.

4

Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

(4) Where the Commission issues Notice on
the defaulter in terms of subsection (3) but the
amount  of the levy in default along with the
surcharge thereon remains unpaid even though
the  period  of  three  weeks  specified  in  such
Notice has elapsed, the Commission shall under
the  hand  of  the  Chairman,  issue  to  the
Magistrate having jurisdiction over the division
in which the defaulter resides or is carrying on
business,  a  Certificate    containing  the  name
and address of the defaulter and the total sum
in default along with a statement to the effect
that  the  person  so  named  has  defaulted  in
making the payment as required by this section.
Where the defaulter is a body corporate, a firm
or a body unincorporated other than a firm, the
certificate  shall  contain  the  names  of  every
director  and  officer  responsible  with  the
management  and  control  of  such  body
corporate or, of every partner of such firm or, of
every officer responsible with the management
and control of such body unincorporate.

(5)  The  Magistrate  shall  on  receipt  of  the
Certificate  issued  under  subsection  (4),  issue
summons  on  the  defaulter  requiring  such
defaulter to appear before him on a date to be
specified and show cause as to why the amount
specified  in  such  certificate  should  not  be
recoverd from such defaulter. Where the cause
shown  appears  to  the  Magistrate  to  be
insufficeient so as to explain the reason for the
nonpayment,  the  Magistrate  shall  after
recording the same, make order for the recovery
of the amount specified in such certificate, from
the defaulter as if it were a fine imposed by the
Magistrate. The money so recovered shall be
remitted to the Commission, which shall credit
the same to the Consolidated Fund.”.

Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

5

PART  IV

IMPOSITION OF A LEVY ON FOREIGN COMMERCIAL TRANSACTIONS

6.

(1) This Part of this Act shall come into operation on
such  date  as  the  Minister  may  by  Order  published  in  the
Gazette appoint (hereinafter in this Part referred to as the
“appointed  date”).

Date  of
operation  of  this
Part.

Imposition  of  a
Levy  on  foreign
commercial
transactions.

(2) The Order under subsection (1) shall, not later than
three months from the date of publication in the Gazette, be
placed before Parliament for its approval.

(3)  Notification  of  the  date  of  the  approval  under

subsection (2) shall be published in the Gezette.

7.

(1) From and after the appointed date, there shall be
charged,  a  levy  to  be  called  the  “Levy  on  Foreign
Commercial Transactions” (hereinafter in this Part referred
to  as  the  “Levy”)  from  every  person  who  has  completed
a transaction through a payment card with a person outside
Sri Lanka, to purchase any goods or services from such person
outside Sri Lanka.

(2) The rate of the Levy shall be 3.5 per centum on the
sum  remitted  outside  Sri  Lanka  for  any  transaction  under
subsection (1).

(3) The levy shall be collected at the time of the remittance
of the sum outside Sri Lanka for a transaction referred to in
subsection (1), by every financial institution which transfers
any such sum.

(4)  The  aggregate  of  the  sums  so  collected  under
subsection (3), by any financial institution within any month
shall be remitted to the Commissioner-General on or before
the  twentieth  day  of  the  month  succeeding  the  relevant
month.

6

Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

(5) A financial institution shall in respect of each financial
year  of  such  financial  institution,  furnish  a  return  to  the
Commissioner-General within a period of six months from
the  end  of  that  financial  year,  in  such  form,  manner  and
containing such information together with such attachments,
as may be specified by the Commissioner-General.

(6)  The  provisions  which  may  be  necessary  for  the
implemention of the provisions of this Part and collection
of the levy shall be prescribed by regulations made under
this Act.

Exemption  from
the  payment  of
the  Levy.

8. The  Minister  may,  having  regard  to  the  economic
development  of  the  country,  by  Order  published  in  the
Gazette,  exempt  any  transaction  specified  in  such  Order,
subject to such conditions as may be specified in such Order,
from the application of the provisions of section 7.

Default  in
payment  of  the
Levy.

9.

(1) Where any financial institution, which is liable
to pay the levy under this Part fails to pay the levy as provided
for in section 7, such financial institution shall be deemed
to be a defaulter under this Act.

(2) The provisions of Chapter IX, Chapter XI, Chapter
XII, Chapter XIII, Chapter XIV, Chapter XV, Chapter XVI,
Chapter XVII and Chapter XVIII of the Inland Revenue Act,
No.  24  of  2017  shall,  mutatis  mutandis,  apply  to  and  in
relation to any such defaulter.

Interpretation.

In this part of this Act, unless the context otherwise

10.
requires—

“Commissioner-General” means, the Commissioner-
General of Inland Revenue appointed or deemed
to  be  appointed  under  the  Inland  Revenue  Act,
No. 24 of 2017;

“charge card” means, a payment card which involves
a  line  of  credit  granted  by  the  issuer  to  the
cardholder  where  the  credit  utilized  by  the

Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

7

cardholder  must  be  settled  fully  on  or  before
a  date  specified  by  the  issuer,  without  any
extended  credit;

“credit card” means, a payment card which involves a
line  of  credit  granted  by  the  issuer  to  the
cardholder where the credit utilized can be settled
in full or in part on or before a specified date. The
issuer may charge interest or other charges on any
amount not settled on the specified date;

“debit card” means, a payment card that may  be used
to  withdraw  cash  or  execute  payments  for
purchase of goods and services, or for both such
purposes,  by  directly  debiting  from  the
cardholder’s  account;

“finance  company”  means,  a  finance  company
licensed under the Finance Business Act, No. 42
of 2011;

“financial institution” means, a licensed commercial
bank,  a  licensed  specialized  bank,  or  a  finance
company engaged in the business as an issuer of
payment  cards  or  financial  acquirer  of  payment
cards under the authority of a licence issued by
Central Bank of Sri Lanka;

“financial  acquirer”  means,  any  person  who  makes
arrangements with third parties to accept payment
cards of cardholders as a means of payment and
reimburses  those  third  parties  with  the  value  of
the goods or services purchased by the cardholder,
or  who  reimburses  such  third  parties  for  cash
advances obtained by the card holders or performs
both such functions;

“issuer” means, an entity that issues a payment card
and thereby enters into a contractual relationship
with the cardholder;

8

Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

“licensed  commercial  bank”  means,  a  commercial
bank licensed under the Banking Act, No. 30 of
1988;

“licensed  specialized  bank”  means,  a  specialized
bank licensed under the Banking Act, No. 30 of
1988;

“payment  card”  means,  a  debit  card,  credit  card,

charge card or stored-value card;

“person”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  assigned  to
such  expression  under  the  Inland  Revenue  Act,
No. 24 of 2017;

“stored-value  card”  means,  a  payment  card  or  any
other device with access to a stored value that can
be  used  as  a  means  of  payment  and  does  not
include  a  card  that  can  be  used  only  to  settle
payment obligations to the issuer of such card.

PART  V

GENERAL

Regulations.

11.

(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect
of all matters which are required to be prescribed or for which
regulations are authorized to be made under this Act.

(2)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  under
subsection  (1)  shall  be  published  in  the Gazette  and  shall
come  into  operation  on  the  date  of  its  publication  or  on
such later date as may be specified therein.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall within
three months from its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Every regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from the
date of disapproval but without prejudice to anything duly
done  thereunder.

Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

9

(4) Notification of  the date on which any regulation is

deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

12.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency.

10

Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

