PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

ONLINE SAFETY ACT, No. 9 OF 2024

[Certified on 01st of February, 2024]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 02, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 96.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

1

[Certified on 01st of February, 2024]

L.D.-O. 34/2021

AN ACT TO ESTABLISH THE ONLINE SAFETY COMMISSION; TO PROVIDE
SAFETY FROM PROHIBITED STATEMENTS MADE ONLINE; TO PREVENT
THE USE OF ONLINE ACCOUNTS AND INAUTHENTIC ONLINE ACCOUNTS
FOR PROHIBITED PURPOSES; TO MAKE PROVISIONS TO IDENTIFY AND
DECLARE ONLINE LOCATIONS USED FOR PROHIBITED PURPOSES  IN SRI
LANKA; TO SUPPRESS THE FINANCING AND OTHER SUPPORT OF
COMMUNICATION OF PROHIBITED STATEMENTS AND FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Online  Safety  Act,

Short  title

No. 9 of 2024.

2. The provisions of this Act shall apply where –

Application  of
the  Act

(a)

(b)

a  person  commits  an  offence  under  this  Act  in
respect of a citizen of Sri Lanka, while being present
in Sri Lanka or outside Sri Lanka;

a loss, damage or harm is caused within or outside
Sri Lanka by the commission of an offence under
this  Act,  to  the  State  or  to  a  person  resident  in
Sri Lanka; or

(c)

an offence under this Act, wherever committed, is
committed by a person who is a citizen of Sri Lanka.

3. The objectives of this Act shall be-

Objectives  of  the
Act

(a)

to  protect  persons  against  harm  caused  by
communication  of  prohibited  statements,  by  way
of an online account or through an online location;

2

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(b)

(c)

(d)

to  ensure  protection  from  communication  of
statements  in  contempt  of  court  or  prejudicial  to
the maintenance of the authority and impartiality
of  the  judiciary,  by  way  of  an  online  account  or
through  an  online  location;

to  introduce  measures  to  detect,  prevent  and
safeguard  against  the  misuses  of  online  accounts
and bots to commit offences under this Act; and

to  prevent  the  financing,  promotion  and  other
support  of  online  locations  which  repeatedly
communicate prohibited statements in Sri Lanka,
by  way  of  online  account  or  through  an  online
location.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ONLINE SAFETY COMMISSION

Establishment  of
the  Online
Safety
Commission

4.  (1)  There  shall  be  established  a  Commission,  which
shall be called the Online Safety Commission (hereinafter
referred to as the “Commission”).

(2) The Commission shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common seal, and may sue and be sued in such name.

(3) The Commission shall exercise and perform the powers
and functions assigned to it under this Act for the purpose of
achieving the objectives of this Act.

Appointment  of
the  members  of
the  Commission

5.  (1)  The  Commission  shall  consist  of  five  members
appointed  by  the  President,  subject  to  the  approval  of  the
Constitutional  Council,  from  among  the  persons  having

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

3

qualifications and experience in one or more of the fields of
information  technology,  law,  governance,  social  services,
journalism, science and technology or management.

(2) Subject to the provisions of section 6, the President
shall recommend the names of five persons to be appointed
as members of the Commission under subsection (1), to the
Constitutional  Council  for  approval.

(3) The President shall, within a period of fourteen days
of  receiving  the  approval  of  the  Constitutional  Council,
appoint the persons approved by the Constitutional Council
under subsection (2) as members of the Commission.

(4) Where the Constitutional Council refuses to approve
the  name  of  a  person  referred  to  in  subsection  (2),  the
President shall make a fresh nomination, and the provisions
of subsections (1), (2), and (3) shall apply to such nomination
accordingly.

(5)  In  the  event  of  the  President  failing  to  make  the
necessary appointments within the period of fourteen days
as specified in subsection (3), the persons approved by the
Constitutional  Council  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been
appointed  as  the  members  of  the  Commission,  with  effct
from the date of the expiry of such period.

6.  A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as a member of the Commission, if such person-

Disqualification
for  being
appointed  as  a
member

(a)

is elected or appointed as a Member of Parliament,
a Member of a Provincial Council or a Member of a
local  authority;

4

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(b)

is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c) directly or indirectly holds or enjoys an entitlement
or  benefit  under  an  agreement  entered  by  or  on
behalf of the Commission;

(d) has any financial or other interest that may adversely
impact  the  implementation  of  the  functions  as  a
member of the Commission;

(e)

absents  himself  from  attending  three  consecutive
meetings of the Commission, without a valid reason;

(f) has  been  discovered  or  declared  as  a  person  of
unsound mind under any law effective in Sri Lanka
or in any other country;

(g)

a person who, having been declared an insolvent or
a  bankrupt  under  any  law  in  Sri  Lanka  or  in  any
other  country,  is  an  undischarged  insolvent  or
bankrupt;  or

(h) has been sentenced or received an order for a term
of imprisonment imposed by any court in Sri Lanka
or in any other country.

Resignation,
removal  and
term  of  office  of
members  of  the
Commission

7. (1) A member of the Commission may resign from office
by letter in that behalf addressed to the President, and such
resignation  shall  take  effect  from  the  date  on  which  the
resignation is accepted in writing by the President.

(2) A member of the Commission may be removed from
his  office  by  the  President,  subject  to  the  approval  of  the
Constitutional Council following a hearing of the relevant
member where such person–

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

5

(a)

is  unable  to  exercise,  perform  and  discharge  the
powers, duties and functions of such office because
of an infirmity of body or mind that has lasted for
more than a period of three months;

(b) has  failed  to  exercise,  perform  and  discharge  the
powers,  duties  and  functions  of  such  office  for  a
cosecutive period of more than three months without
the approval of the Commission; or

(c)

is  disqualified  in  terms  of  the  provisions  of
section 6.

(3) Any hearing under subsection (2) shall be concluded
within three months from the date of commencement of such
hearing.

(4) Upon the receipt of the approval of the Constitutional
Council, the President shall, in writing, remove such member
of the Commission, and shall state in the letter of removal-

(a)

the  date  on  which  the  removal  shall  take  effect
which shall not be a date earlier than the date on
which the letter of removal is received; and

(b)

the reasons for the removal.

(5) Any member of the Commission may be suspended
from the office by the President prior to the commencement
of  the  hearing  or  during  the  course  of  the  hearing  under
subsection (2).

(6) The term of office of a member of the Commission

shall be three years from the date of appointment.

6

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(7) Where a member of the Commission vacates office
by  death,  resignation  or  other  cause,  the  President  shall
appoint, having regard to the provisions of sections 5 and 6,
another  eligible  person  in  such  member’s  place,  and  the
person so appointed shall hold office for the unexpired period
of  the  term  of  office  of  the  member  whom  such  person
succeeds.

(8) A member of the Commission whose term of office is
due to end otherwise than by removal, shall be eligible for
reappointment for not more than one further term of office,
whether consecutive or otherwise.

(9) Members  of  the  Commission  shall  be  paid  such
remuneration  as  may  be  determined  by  a  resolution  of
Parliament and such remuneration shall be charged to the
Fund of the Commission.

Chairman  of  the
Commission

8. (1) The President shall appoint one of the members of
the  Commission  to  be  the  Chairman  of  the  Commission
(hereinafter referred to as the “Chairman”).

(2) The Chairman may resign from the office of Chairman
by  letter  in  that  behalf  addressed  to  the  President  and  the
resignation  shall  take  effect  from  the  date  on  which  it  is
accepted, in writing, by the President.

(3)  The  Chairman  shall  cease  to  be  the  Chairman,  if
disqualified to be a member of the Commission in terms of
section 6.

(4) The term of office of the Chairman shall be three years.

(5) The Chairman shall not, on vacation of the office of

Chairman, be eligible for reappointment as Chairman.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

7

(6)  Without  prejudice  to  the  provisions  of  this  section,
the Chairman shall, within one month of being appointed as
the  Chairman,  nominate  a  member  in  writing,  to  be  the
Deputy Chairman to discharge the functions of the Chairman
during his absence from office due to illness or any other
cause.

9. (1) The Chairman shall summon all meetings of the
Commission.  Any  member  of  the  Commission  may,  by
written notice, request the Chairman to call a meeting of the
Commission and the Chairman shall not otherwise than for
good reason, refuse to do so.

Meetings  of  the
Commission

(2)  The  Commission  may  decide  any  matter,  which  is
determined by the Chairman to be urgent with the agreement
of the majority of the members.

(3)  The  Chairman  shall  preside  at  all  meetings  of  the
Commission  and  in  the  absence  of  the  Chairman  at  any
meeting, the Deputy Chairman shall preside at such meeting.

(4) The quorum for a meeting of the Commission shall be
three  members  including  the  Chairman.  In  the  absence  of
the Chairman, the quorum shall be three members including
the Deputy Chairman.

(5) All matters for decision by the Commission shall be
decided  by  a  majority  of  the  votes  of  the  members  of  the
Commission present and voting at the meeting at which the
decision is taken. The decision so supported by the votes of
a majority of the members of the Commission on any matter
shall be deemed to be the decision of the Commission on
that matter.

8

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(6)  All  decisions  of  the  Commission,  supported  by
reasons, shall be in writing and the seal of the Commission
affixed  thereto  in  accordance  with  paragraph  (c)  of
section  10.

(7) In case there is an equality of votes on any matter to
be decided by the Commission, the Chairman shall have a
casting  vote.

(8)  Subject  to  the  preceding  provisions  of  this  section,
the Commission may regulate the procedure in regard to the
meetings of the Commission and the transaction of business
at such meetings.

(9)  No  act,  decision  or  proceeding  of  the  Commission
shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence
of  any  vacancy  in  its  membership  or  defect  in  the
appointment of any member thereof.

Seal  of  the
Commission

10. The Seal of the Commission-

(a)

shall be determined by the Commission and may
be altered in such manner as may be determined by
the Commission;

(b)

shall  be  in  the  custody  of  such  person  as  the
Commission may determine from time to time; and

(c)

shall not be affixed to any instrument or document
except with the sanction of the Commission and in

the presence of two members of the Commission

who shall sign the instrument or document in token

of their presence.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

9

PART II

POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION

11.  The  Commission  shall  have  the  following  powers

and  functions: -

Powers  and
functions  of  the
Commission

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

to  issue  directives  to  persons,  internet  service
providers  or  internet  intermediaries,  who  have
published or communicated or whose service has
been  used  to  communicate  any  prohibited
statement, requiring them to provide to persons who
have  been  adversely  affected  by  any  prohibited
statement,  an  opportunity  of  responding  to  such
prohibited  statement;

to  issue  notices  to  persons  who  communicate
prohibited statements, to stop the communication
of such statements;

to issue notices to any internet service provider or
internet intermediary to disable access to an online
location which contains a prohibited statement by
the  end  users  in  Sri  Lanka  or  to  remove  such
prohibited statement from such online location;

to refer to the appropriate court as provided for in
paragraph (3) of Article 105 of the Constitution or
any other relevant written law for its consideration
any  communications  that  may  be  in  contempt  of
court  or  prejudicial  to  the  maintenance  of  the
authority and impartiality of the judiciary, and to
provide  such  assistance  as  may  be  required  from
any  court  in  respect  of  any  matter  so  referred  to
such  court;

10

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

(j)

(k)

(l)

to  make  recommendations  to  internet  service
providers  and  internet  intermediaries  to  remove
prohibited  statements;

to maintain an online portal containing information
to  enlighten  the  public  of  the  falsity  of  any
statement;

to specify declared online locations in terms of the
provisions of this Act, and make recommendations
to disable access to the information disseminated
through  such  online  location;

to carry out such investigations as may be necessary
to exercise and perform the powers and functions
of the Commission;

to issue codes of practice by way of rules for internet
service providers and internet intermediaries who
provide internet based communication services to
the end users in Sri Lanka;

to  register,  in  such  manner  as  may  be  specified
by  rules  made  under  this  Act,  the  websites
providing social media platforms to the end users
in Sri Lanka;

to consult, to the extent the Commission considers
appropriate, any person or group of persons who or
which may be affected, or likely to be affected, in
the discharge of its powers and functions;

to  advise  the  Government,  as  the  Commission
deems appropriate, on all matters concerning online
safety  in  Sri  Lanka,  within  the  purview  of  this
Act;

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

11

(m)

to  acquire  and  hold  property  movable  and
immovable, and to sell, lease, mortgage, exchange,
or otherwise dispose of the same;

(n)

(o)

(p)

to enter into such contracts as may be necessary for
the  exercise,  performance  and  discharge  of  its
powers, duties and functions;

to obtain the assistance of the police in the conduct
the
of  any 
Commission;

investigation  undertaken  by 

to appoint, employ and dismiss members of the staff
of  the  Commission  and  to  exercise  disciplinary
control over such staff; and

(q) generally, to do all such other acts and things as are
incidental  to  or  consequential  in  the  exercise,
performance and discharge of its powers, duties and
functions under this Act.

PART III

PROHIBITION OF ONLINE COMMUNICATION OF FALSE

STATEMENTS

12.  Any  person,  whether  in  or  outside  Sri  Lanka,  who
poses a threat to national security, public health or public
order or promotes feelings of ill-will and hostility between
different  classes  of  people,  by  communicating  a  false
statement, commits an offence and shall on conviction be
liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or
to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand rupees or to
both such imprisonment and fine.

Prohibition  of
communication
of  false
statements  in  Sri
Lanka

12

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

Communication
of  false
statement
amounting  to
contempt

Wantonly  giving
provocation  by
false  statement
to  cause  riot

13.  Any  person,  whether  in  or  outside  Sri  Lanka  who
communicates a false statement by way of an online account
or through an online location which amounts to contempt
of  court,  in  the  opinion  of  any  court  which  exercises  the
special  jurisdiction  to  punish  the  offence  of  contempt  of
court,  in  terms  of  paragraph  (3)  of  Article  105  of  the
Constitution or any other relevant written law, commits an
offence and the provisions of that Article and relevant written
law shall, mutatis mutandis, apply in sentencing such person.

14.  Any  person,  whether  in  or  outside  Sri  Lanka  who
maliciously  or  wantonly,  by  way  of  an  online  account  or
through  an  online  location,  by  communicating  a  false
statement,  gives  provocation  to  any  person  or  incites  any
person  intending  or  knowing  it  to  be  likely  that  such
provocation or incitement, will cause the offence of rioting
to be committed, shall-

(a)

(b)

if  the  offence  of  rioting  be  committed  in
consequence  of  such  provocation,  be  liable  to
imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding  five  years,  or  to  a  fine  not  exceeding
five  hundred  thousand  rupees  or  to  both  such
imprisonment and fine; and

 if the offence of rioting be not committed, be liable
to imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding  three  years,  or  to  a  fine  not  exceeding
three  hundred  thousand  rupees,  or  to  both  such
imprisonment and fine.

Disturbing  a
religious
assembly  by  a
false  statement

15. Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka who by
communicating  a  false  statement,  voluntarily  causes
disturbance  to  any  assembly  lawfully  engaged  in  the
performance of religious worship or religious ceremonies,

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

13

commits  an  offence  and  shall  on  conviction  be  liable  to
imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding
three  years,  or  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  three  hundred
thousand rupees, or to both such imprisonment and fine.

16.  Any  person,  whether  in  or  outside  Sri  Lanka  who
with  the  deliberate  and  malicious  intention  of  outraging
the religious feelings of any class of persons by way of an
online account or through an online location by words, either
spoken or written, or by visible representations, insults or
attempts to insult the religion or the religious beliefs of that
class  by  communicating  a  false  statement,  commits  an
offence and shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment
of either description for a term not exceeding three years, or
to a fine not exceeding three hundred thousand rupees or to
both such imprisonment and fine.

Deliberate  and
malicious
communication  of
false  statement  to
outrage  religious
feelings

17.  Any  person,  whether  in  or  outside  Sri  Lanka  who
deceives any person by communicating a false statement,
by way of an online account or through an online location-

Online  cheating

(a)

(b)

fraudulently or dishonestly induces the person so
deceived to deliver any property to any person, or
to consent that any person shall retain any property;
or

intentionally induces the person so deceived to do
or omit to do anything which he would not do or
omit, if he was not so deceived, and which act or
omission causes or is likely to cause harm to that
person  in  body,  mind,  reputation,  or  property,  or
damage or loss to the Government,

commits  the  offence  of  “online  cheating”  and  shall  on
conviction be liable to imprisonment for a term which may
extend  to  seven  years  or  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  seven
hundred thousand rupees, or to both such imprisonment and
fine.

14

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

Online  cheating
by  personation

18. Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka who, by

means of an online account, cheats by -

(a) pretending to be some other person;

(b) knowingly substituting one person for another; or

(c)

representing that such person or any other person is
a person other than the person really is,

commits  the  offence  of  “online  cheating  by  personation”
and shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to three years or to
a fine not exceeding three hundred thousand rupees, or to
both such imprisonment and fine.

19.  Any  person,  whether  in  or  outside  Sri  Lanka  who
communicates any false statement, with intent to cause any
officer,  sailor,  soldier,  or  airman  in  the  navy,  army  or  air
force of Sri Lanka to mutiny, or with intent to cause fear or
alarm to the public, induces any other person to commit an
offence against the State or against the public tranquillity,
commits  an  offence  and  shall  on  conviction  be  liable  to
imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding
seven  years,  or  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  seven  hundred
thousand rupees, or to both such imprisonment and fine.

20. (1) Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka who
wilfully makes or communicates a statement, with intention
to cause harassment to another person (in this section referred
to  as  the  “target  person”),  by  publishing  any  private
information of the target person or a related person of the
target person, and as a result causes the target person or any
other person harassment, commits an offence and shall on
conviction  be  liable  to  imprisonment  for  a  term  not
exceeding five years or to a fine not exceeding five hundred

Circulating  false
report  with
intent  to  cause
mutiny  or  an
offence  against
the  State,  &  c.

Communicating
statements  to
cause  harassment
&  c.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

15

thousand rupees and in the event of a second or subsequent
conviction, such term of imprisonment or fine or both such
imprisonment and fine may be doubled.

(2) For the purpose of this section-

(a)

(b)

“private information” means personal information,
including  any  image,  audio  or  video  details,  that
any person may reasonably expect to remain private,
but does not include any information that may be
evidence of the commission of any other offence;
and

“harassment” means an act or behaviour which has
the effect of threatening, alarming or distressing a
person or violating a person’s dignity or creating
an intimidating, degrading, hostile, humiliating or
offensive environment or, which has all such effects.

Illustrations-

(a) X  and  Y  were  formerly  in  a  relationship  which  has  since  ended.

X  writes  a  post  on  a  social  media  platform  including  Y’s

photographs  and  personal  mobile  number,  intending  to  cause

harassment  to  Y  by  facilitating  the  identification  or  enabling

others  to  contact  Y.  Y  did  not  see  the  post,  but  receives  and  is

harassed  by  telephone  calls  and  short  messages  via  short  message

service  from  strangers  (who  have  read  the  post)  propositioning

Y  for  sex.  X  is  guilty  of  an  offence  under  this  section  in  relation

to  such  post.

(b) X  and  Y  were  formerly  in  a  relationship  which  has  since  ended.

X  posts  a  photograph  of  Y  in  the  possession  of  X  which  Y  could

reasonably  have  expected  to  remain  private.  X  is  guilty  of  an

offence  under  this  section  in  relation  to  such  post.

Child  abuse  &  c.

16

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

21. (1) Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka, who,
by way of an online account or through an online location
commits  or  aids  and  abets  an  act  upon  a  child,  which
constitutes an offence within the meaning of section 286A,
288, 288A, 288B, 308A, 360A, 360B, 360C, 363, 364A, 365,
365A  or  365B  of  the  Penal  Code  commits  an  offence  and
shall  on  conviction  be  liable  to  the  punishment  for  each
such offence as specified in the Schedule hereto:

Provided however, in the case of aiding and abetting to
commit an offence under section 363 of the Penal Code in
respect of a child, every reference to a “woman” in subsection
(2)  of  section  364  of  the  Penal  Code  shall  be  read  and
construed as a reference to a “child” for the purpose of this
section.

(2)  Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka, who, by
way  of  an  online  account  or  through  an  online  location,
publishes  any  photograph,  audio  or  video  of  abusive  or
pornographic nature relating to a child, commits an offence
and shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment for a term
not less than two years and not exceeding twenty years or to
a  fine  not  exceeding  one  million  rupees,  or  to  both  such
imprisonment and fine.

(3) Where any person is convicted for an offence under
subsection (1), such person shall, in addition to the penalty
specified  therein,  be  liable  to  pay  such  compensation  as
may be ordered by court, to the child or group of children in
respect of whom such offence was committed.

Making  or
altering  bots  to
commit  an
offence

22.  Any  person,  whether  in  or  outside  Sri  Lanka,  who
makes or alters a bot with the intention of communicating or
enabling any other person to communicate, by means of a

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

17

bot, a statement which constitutes an offence under this Act,
commits  an  offence  and  shall  on  conviction  be  liable  to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to a fine
not exceeding five hundred thousand rupees, or to both such
imprisonment and fine.

PART IV

MEASURES AGAINST ONLINE COMMUNICATION OF PROHIBITED
STATEMENTS  IN SRI LANKA

23. (1) A person aggrieved by the communication of a
prohibited  statement  which  is  seen,  heard  or  otherwise
perceived  by  the  users  of  internet  based  communication
services  (in  this  Act  referred  to  as  the  “end  users”)  in
Sri Lanka, by any other person, may either in writing or in
electronic  form,  make  a  complaint  providing  information
pertaining to such communication to the Commission.

Providing
information  to
the  Commission
o n
communication
of  prohibited
statement

(2)  The  Commission  shall  designate  such  number  of
information officers from among the staff of the Commission
as the Commission may deem necessary, from time to time,
to  receive  information  in  relation  to  communication  of  a
prohibited statement for the purpose of subsection (1).

(3) (a) Every complaint shall set out all available details
of  the  person  or  persons  responsible  for  the  making  or
communicating the prohibited statement, including, where
available,  details  pertaining  to  the  Universal  Resource
Locator  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “URL”)  or  other
identifying features of the location or number from which
the  prohibited  statement  was  communicated  or  published,
and such other details as may be prescribed.

(b) Where it is possible to do so, the complainant shall
serve  a  copy  of  the  complaint  to  the  person  or  persons
making or communicating the prohibited statement and any
internet service provider or internet intermediary.

18

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(c) In the event, the information necessary to give such
notice  as  aforesaid  is  not  available,  the  complainant  shall
specify the absence of such information in the complaint.

(4) A written acknowledgement of the receipt, including
a  receipt  in  electronic  form,  of  such  information  shall  be
immediately issued by the information officer on behalf of
the Commission.

(5) Where the Commission is of the opinion that sufficient
material  exists  that  a  prohibited  statement  has  been
communicated,  the  Commission  shall  carry  out
investigations  through  the  officers  of  the  Commission.
During such investigations, an opportunity to be heard shall
be given to the person alleged to have communicated such
prohibited  statement.

(6)  (a)  If  the  Commission  is  satisfied,  that  sufficient
material  exists  that  a  prohibited  statement  has  been
communicated,  it  may,  taking  into  consideration  the
seriousness of the matter and the likelihood of damage or
harm caused by such prohibited statement, issue notice to
the  person  who  communicated  such  prohibited  statement,
to take measures to prevent the circulation of such prohibited
statement.

(b)  A  person  to  whom  a  notice  has  been  issued  under
paragraph  (a)  shall  comply  with  such  notice  immediately
but not later than twenty four hours from such notice.

(c) Notice referred to in paragraph (a), shall be deemed
to be served, where it is served by personal service, sent by
post  to  the  last  known  address  of  the  person  who
communicated  such  prohibited  statement,  or  served  by
electronic  means  to  such  person,  or  served  by  such  other
appropriate method adopted by the Commission depending
on the nature of the case.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

19

(d)  Notice referred to in paragraph (a) shall be deemed to
be served by electronic means where such notice is sent to
such  person’s  email  address  or  social  media  account,  or
internet service provider or internet intermediary on whose
online  location  such  prohibited  statement  has  been
communicated.

(7)  Where any person fails to comply with a notice issued
under subsection (6) within twenty four hours of such notice,
the Commission shall issue a notice to the internet service
provider or internet intermediary on whose online location
such prohibited statement has been communicated-

(a)

(b)

to disable access by the end users in Sri Lanka to
such prohibited statement; or

to  remove  such  prohibited  statement  from  such
online  location,

as the case may be, for the period specified in such notice.

(8)  The internet service provider or internet intermediary
to whom a notice has been issued under subsection (7) shall
comply with such notice within twenty four hours from the
issuance of such notice.

(9) Where-

(a)

(b)

a  person  fails  to  act  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of paragraph (b) of subsection (6); or

an internet service provider or internet intermediary
fails  to  act  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
subsection (8),

the  Commission  may  apply  to  the  Magistrate’s  Court  by
way  of  petition  and  affidavit  to  obtain  an  order  directing
such  person  or  internet  service  provider  or  internet

20

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

intermediary,  as  the  case  may  be,  to  comply  with  such
provisions  and  the  provisions  of  section  24,  shall  mutatis
mutandis, apply in relation to such application.

Applying  for  a
court  order  to
prevent
circulation  of
prohibited
statements

24. (1) Any person affected by the communication of any
prohibited  statement  may  apply  to  the  Magistrate’s  Court
by way of petition and affidavit to obtain an order to prevent
the circulation of such information.

(2)  Upon  considering  such  application,  the  Magistrate
may issue a conditional order to such person or the internet
service provider or internet intermediary on whose online
location such prohibited statement has been communicated.

(3)  The  order  made  under  subsection  (2)  may  contain,

inter  alia-

(a)

the  name  of  the  person  who  is  required  to  stop
communication  of  the  prohibited  statement  with
immediate effect; and

(b)

any other order as the Magistrate deems fit.

(4)  (a)  The  order  made  under  subsection  (2)  shall  be
deemed to be served, where it is served by personal service,
sent  by  post  to  the  last  known  address  of  such  person,  or
served by electronic means to such person, or by such other
appropriate  method  ordered  by  the  Magistrate  depending
on the nature of the case.

(b) The order made under subsection (2) shall be deemed
to be served by electronic means where such order is sent to
such  person’s  email  address  or  social  media  account,  or
internet service provider or internet intermediary on whose
online  location  such  prohibited  statement  has  been
communicated.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

21

(5) The person against whom a conditional order is made
under subsection (2) shall either comply with such order or
appear before the Magistrate as specified in subsection (6)
to show cause as to why the order shall not be made absolute.

(6) Where the person against whom a conditional order is
made under subsection (2) intends to show cause, such person
shall appear before the Magistrate making that order within
a period of two weeks of making such order and move to
have the order set aside or modified in the manner hereinafter
provided.

(7) If the person against whom an order is made under
subsection (2) neither complies with the order nor appears
before the Magistrate under subsection (6), such person shall
be liable to the penalty specified in subsection (9) and the
order shall be made absolute.

(8) (a) Where such person appears before the Magistrate
in terms of subsection (6), to show cause by way of petition
and  affidavit,  the  Magistrate  shall  hold  an  inquiry  which
shall  be  concluded  within  two  weeks  of  the  date  of
commencement of the inquiry.

(b) The Magistrate may, having regard to the facts stated
by the person against whom the conditional order is made
under subsection (2), either move to have the order set aside
or modified, if the Magistrate is satisfied that the order made
under this section is not reasonable and proper, and make an
appropriate order subject to the provisions of this Act.

(c) If the Magistrate is not so satisfied, the order made

under subsection (2) shall be made absolute.

(d) Where the order under subsection (2) is modified under

paragraph (b), such order shall be made absolute.

22

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(9) Where the person against whom any order is made
under this section fails to comply with such order within the
period and in the manner ordered by the Magistrate, such
person commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to a
fine  not  exceeding  two  million  rupees  and  the  Magistrate
may order the Commission to take steps to -

(a) disable access by end users in Sri Lanka to the online
location  containing  such  communication  of  the
prohibited statement in Sri Lanka; or

(b)

remove  the  relevant  communication  of  the
prohibited statement in Sri Lanka from the online
location  containing  such  communication.

25.  (1)  Where  any  person  is  aggrieved  by  the
communication  of  a  prohibited  statement  and  the
information necessary to serve a copy of the complaint under
subsection  (3)  of  section  23  is  not  available,  such  person
shall specify the absence of such information in the complaint
made under subsection (1) of section 23.

(2) In the event of the receipt of a complaint referred to in
subsection (1), the Commission shall make an application
to the Magistrate’s Court by way of petition and affidavit
seeking  a  conditional  order  directing  the  internet
intermediary  on  whose  online  location  such  prohibited
statement  was  communicated,  to  disclose  the  information
regarding the identity of the person who communicated the
prohibited  statement.

(3) The Magistrate may upon being satisfied that –

Disclosure  of
identity
information

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

23

(a)

the statement was a prohibited statement;

(b)

(c)

the  order  is  sought  for  the  sole  purpose  of
identifying  the  person  who  communicated  such
prohibited  statement;  and

the order is a proportionate and necessary response
in all of the circumstances of the matter before the
Court,  taking  into  consideration  whether  the
petitioner’s right to disclosure of the information is
outweighed by any countervailing right or interest
of the person sought to be identified,

issue the order sought by the Commission.

(4)  The  order  made  under  subsection  (3)  may  contain,

inter  alia-

(a)

the  name  of  the  internet  intermediary  which  is
required to disclose the information sought; and

(b)

any other order as the Magistrate deems fit.

(5)  (a) The  order  made  under  subsection  (3)  shall  be
deemed to be served, where it is served by personal service,
sent  by  post  to  the  last  known  address  of  the  internet
intermediary, or served by electronic means to such internet
intermediary, or by such other appropriate method ordered
by the Magistrate depending on the nature of the case.

(b) The order made under subsection (3) shall be deemed
to be served by electronic means where such order is sent to
the  email  address  or  social  media  account,  of  the  internet
intermediary  on  whose  online  location  such  prohibited
statement has been communicated.

24

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(6) The internet intermediary against whom a conditional
order is made under subsection (3) shall either comply with
such order or appear before the Magistrate as specified in
subsection (7) to show cause as to why the order shall not be
made absolute.

(7)  Where  the  internet  intermediary  against  whom  a
conditional  order  is  made  under  subsection  (3)  intends  to
show  cause,  it  shall  appear  before  the  Magistrate  making
that order within a period of two weeks of making such order
and  move  to  have  the  order  set  aside  or  modified  in  the
manner hereinafter provided.

(8) If the internet intermediary against whom an order is
made under subsection (3) neither complies with the order
nor  appears  before  the  Magistrate  under  subsection  (7),  it
shall be liable to the fine specified in subsection (10) and
the order shall be made absolute.

(9) (a) Where such internet intermediary appears before
the court in terms of subsection (7) to show cause by way of
petition and affidavit, the Magistrate shall hold an inquiry
which shall be concluded within two weeks of the date of
commencement of the inquiry.

(b) The Magistrate may, having regard to the facts stated
by the internet intermediary against whom the conditional
order is made under subsection (3), either move to have the
order set aside or modified, if the Magistrate is satisfied that
the  order  under  this  section  is  not  reasonable  and  proper,
make an appropriate order subject to the provisions of this
Act.

(c)  If the Magistrate is not so satisfied, the order made

under subsection (3) shall be made absolute.

Aggrieved
person  to  seek
disclosure  of
identity
information

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

25

(d) Where  the  order  under  subsection  (3)  is  modified

under paragraph (b), such order shall be made absolute.

(10) Where the internet intermediary against whom any

order is made under this section fails to comply with such

order  within  the  period  and  in  the  manner  ordered  by  the

Magistrate,  such  person  shall  be  liable  to  a  fine  not

exceeding ten million rupees.

26. (1)  Any  person  who  is  aggrieved  by  the

communication of a prohibited statement may, by way of a

civil  action  instituted  in  the  District  Court  within  the

jurisdiction of which such aggrieved person resides, apply

for an order directing the internet intermediary of the online

location on which such prohibited statement communicated

to  disclose  any  information  regarding  the  identity  or  the

location  of  the  person  who  used  such  online  location  to

communicate  such  statement  using  the  inauthentic  online

account or bot.

(2) Upon the receipt of an application under subsection

(1), the court may, if-

(a)

the  prohibited  statement  was  communicated  by  a

person  whose  identity  cannot  be  traced  by  the

person who is aggrieved by such statement;

(b)

the internet intermediary against whom the order is

sought was involved in the communication of such

statement whether innocently or not;

Exemption  from
liability  of
internet  service
providers  in
certain  cases

26

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(c)

the  information  sought  is  necessary  for  the
aggrieved  person  to  initiate  legal  proceedings  to
seek redress in relation to the damage or harm caused
by the communication of such statement; and

(d)

the aggrieved person’s right to get such information
disclosed  is  outweighed  by  any  countervailing
right or interest of the person sought to be identified,

order an internet intermediary to disclose the information as
requested by the aggrieved person.

27. (1) Subject to the provisions of any other written law
and the provisions of subsection (2), a person who engages
in  providing  the  following  services  shall  have  no  liability
in relation to  the communication of a prohibited statement
circulated  through  the  online  location  owned,  operated  or
controlled  by  such  person,  or  for  making  available  to  the
end  users  through  such    online  location  a  communication
link which contains any prohibited statement by any other
party, which amounts to an offence under this Act or for any
compensation payable for any wrongful loss caused to any
person by such communication:-

(a)

an internet intermediary service;

(b)

a  telecommunication  service;

(c)

a service of giving public access to the internet;

(d)

a computing resource service;

(e)

(f)

an  email  service,  if  emails  are  the  only  user-
generated content enabled by such service;

a short message service or multimedia messaging
service -

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

27

(i) if  such  short  messages  are  the  only
user-generated  content  enabled  by  such
service;

(ii) if  such  multimedia  messages  are  the  only
user-generated  content  enabled  by  such
service; or

(iii) if  such  short  messages  and  multimedia
messages are the only user-generated content
enabled by such service; or

(g) one-to-one live aural communication service, if such
one-to-one live aural communications are the only
user-generated content enabled by such service.

(2) Where-

(a) a  false  statement,  prohibited  statement  or
material  communicated  on  any  service
referred to in subsection (1) has been removed
within six months from the date of coming in
to operation of this Act; or

(b) any material has been uploaded or interfered

with by third parties,

the  owner  of  an  online  account  or  the  internet  service
provider shall have no liability in relation to the statement
or the material referred to in paragraph (a) or (b).

(3) The exemption from liability granted under subsection

(1) shall not apply, if such person –

(a) has  initiated  the  communication;

(b) has selected the end user of the communication;

(c) has  selected  or  modified  the  content  of  the

communication;  or

28

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(d) has not complied with the provisions of this Act,
any regulation or rule made thereunder or any code
of  practice  issued  by  the  Commission  by  way  of
rules made under this Act, in providing such service.

(4) Any person who fails to adhere to the relevant code of
practice  issued  by  the  Commission  by  way  of  rules  made
under this Act, and thereby causes wrongful loss to any other
person,  shall  be  liable  to  pay  damages  by  way  of
compensation to the person who suffered such loss.

(5) For the purpose of this section-

“computing resource service” includes any internet service
provided by a person to the public using any means
except by the use of an internet intermediary service,
a  telecommunications  service  or  a  service  of  giving
public access to the internet;

“telecommunication  service”  shall  have  the  same
meaning  assigned  to  such  term  in  the  Sri  Lanka
Telecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991.

PART V

DECLARED  ONLINE  LOCATIONS

Declared  online
locations

28. (1) The Commission may declare an online location

as a “declared online location”, if-

(a)

three or more different prohibited statements have
been communicated to the end users in Sri Lanka
on  such  online  location  in  respect  of  which
conditional  orders  were  made  absolute  by  the
Magistrate under section 24; and

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

29

(b)

at  least  three  of  such  statements  had  first  been
communicated  to  the  end  users  in  Sri  Lanka  on
such online location within six months prior to the
date of a declaration under this section is made.

(2) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of subsection (1), a
statement is different from another if it is different in a material
particular from that other statement.

(3) A declaration made under this section shall contain-

(a)

the  URL,  domain  name,  or  any  other  unique
identifier of the online location;

(b)

the relevant orders made by the Magistrate’s Court;

(c)

the date on which the declaration comes into effect;

(d)

(e)

the  date  on  which  the  declaration  expires  which
must not be later than two years after the date referred
to in paragraph (c);

a  notice  for  the  owner  or  operator  of  the  online
location  whether  in  or  outside  Sri  Lanka  to
communicate in such manner as may be specified
in the declaration, to any end user in Sri Lanka who
accesses the online location, a notice in such form
as  may  be  specified  in  such  declaration,  that  the
online location is the subject of a declaration; and

(f)

such other particulars as may be prescribed.

(4) A declaration made under this section may expire-

(a) on  the  date  specified  therein,  in  accordance  with

paragraph (d) of subsection (3); or

30

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(b) on  the  date  it  is  cancelled  or  set  aside  by  the

Commission,

whichever is earlier.

(5) As soon as possible after a declaration is made and
before the date it comes into effect, the Commission shall
publish, in such form and manner as may be prescribed, a
notice in the Gazette -

(a)

(b)

stating  that  a  declaration  has  been  issued  under
this section; and

setting  out  the  URL,  domain  name,  or  any  other
unique  identifier  of  the  online  location,  to  which
the declaration relates.

(6) (a) The declaration shall be deemed to be served, if
the declaration is served by personal service, sent by post to
the  last  known  address  of  such  owner  or  operator  of  the
online  location,  or  served  by  electronic  means  to  such
person, or by such other appropriate method adopted by the
Commission, depending on the nature of the case.

(b)  The  declaration  shall  be  deemed  to  be  served  by
electronic means where such declaration is sent to the email
address or social media account of the owner or operator of
the online location through which such prohibited statement
has been communicated.

(7)  Where  any  owner  or  operator  of  a  declared  online
location fails to comply with the notice to communicate a
notice as referred to in paragraph (e) of subsection (3), the
Commission or any person authorised by the Commission
may apply to the Magistrate for an order directing owner or
operator to-

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

31

(a) disable access by the end users in Sri Lanka to such

declared  online  location;

(b)

to communicate to all end users in Sri Lanka who
access  such  declared  online  location,  a  notice
declaring that the online location is the subject of a
declaration;  and

(c)

any other order as the Magistrate deems fit.

(8)    Upon  considering  such  application,  the  Magistrate
may make a conditional order on the owner or operator of a
declared  online  location  containing  the  directions  applied
by the Commission under subsection (7).

(9)  The  order  made  under  subsection  (8)  may  contain,

inter  alia-

(a)

(b)

(c)

the  name  of  the  owner  or  operator  of  a  declared
online  location  who  is  required  to  disable  access
by the end users in Sri Lanka to the declared online
location;

the manner of communicating the notice referred
to in paragraph (e) of subsection (3); and

the  period  within  which  such  notice  shall  be
published after the service of the order.

(10) The order made under subsection (8) shall be deemed
to be served on the owner or operator of a declared online
location against whom the order is made, if the order is served
by personal service, sent by registered post to the last known
address  of  such  person,  or  served  by  electronic  means  to
such person, or by any other method deemed proper by the
Magistrate  depending  on  the  nature  of  the  case  and  in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.

32

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(11) The owner or operator of a declared online location
against whom a conditional order is made under subsection
(8) shall either comply with such order or appear before the
Magistrate as specified in subsection (12) to show cause as
to why the order shall not be made absolute.

(12)  Where  the  owner  or  operator  of  a  declared  online
location  against  whom  a  conditional  order  is  made  under
subsection (8) intends to show cause, such person shall appear
before the Magistrate making that order within a period of
two weeks of making such order and move to have the order
set aside or modified in the manner hereinafter provided:

Provided however, any owner or operator of a declared
online location against whom a conditional order is made
under subsection (8) shall be bound to comply with the order
with effect from the date of making such order until such
order is set aside or modified by the Magistrate in terms of
the provisions of this section.

(13) If the owner or operator of a declared online location
against whom an order is made under subsection (8) neither
complies with the order nor appears before the Magistrate
under  subsection  (12)  such  person  shall  be  liable  to  the
penalty specified in subsection (15) and the order shall be
made absolute.

(14) (a) Where such owner or operator of a declared online
location appears before the Magistrate in terms of subsection
(12)  to  show  cause  by  way  of  petition  and  affidavit,  the
Magistrate shall hold an inquiry which shall be concluded
within  two  weeks  of  the  date  of  commencement  of  the
inquiry.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

33

(b) The Magistrate may, having regard to the facts stated
by the owner or operator of a declared online location against
whom the conditional order is made under subsection (8),
either move to have the order set aside or modified, if the
Magistrate is satisfied that the order under this section is not
reasonable and proper, and make an appropriate order, subject
to the provisions of this Act.

(c) If the Magistrate is not so satisfied, the order made

under subsection (8) shall be made absolute.

(d) Where the order under subsection (8) is modified under

paragraph (b), such order shall be made absolute.

 (15) Where the owner or operator of a declared online
location against whom the order is made under this section
fails to comply with such order within the period and in the
manner ordered by the Magistrate’s Court, such owner or
operator of a declared online location commits an offence
and shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding six years or to a fine not exceeding ten million
rupees and Magistrate’s Court may make an order directing
the Commission to take steps to disable access by the end
users in Sri Lanka to the declared online location.

(16) The Commission may at any time suspend, vary or
cancel  a  declaration  made  under  subsection  (1)  for  such
period as the Commission may determine-

(a) on its own initiative; or

(b) on an application by-

(i) the  owner  or  operator  of  the  declared

online  location;  or

(ii) any person with editorial control over the

online  location.

34

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(17)  For  the  purpose  of  subsection  (16),  a  person  has
“editorial control over an online location” if the person is
able to decide-

(a) whether any statement may be included or excluded

on the online location; or

(b) where to place any statement on the online location.

(18)  Upon  a  declaration  being  suspended,  varied  or

cancelled under subsection (16), the Commission shall-

(a) publish,  in  such  form  and  manner  as  may  be
prescribed, a notice of the suspension, variation or
cancellation in the Gazette; and

(b) make reasonable efforts to give a copy of such notice
to  the  owner  or  operator  of  the  declared  online
location.

Certain  persons
not  to
communicate  in
Sri  Lanka,  paid
content  on
declared  online
locations,  &  c.

29. (1) An internet service provider must take reasonable
steps (both in and outside Sri Lanka) to ensure that, after a
prescribed  period  commencing  on  the  date  a  declaration
made under section 28 comes into effect, any paid content
that it includes or causes to be included on a declared online
location, is not communicated in Sri Lanka on the declared
online  location.

(2) An internet intermediary must take reasonable steps
(both  in  and  outside  Sri  Lanka)  to  ensure  that,  after  a
prescribed  period  commencing  on  the  date  a  declaration
made under section 28 comes into effect, any paid content
that it includes or causes to be included on a declared online
location is not communicated in Sri Lanka on the declared
online  location.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

35

(3) An internet intermediary must take reasonable steps
(both  in  and  outside  Sri  Lanka)  to  ensure  that,  after  a
prescribed period commencing on the date on the declaration
made under section 28 comes into effect, it does not, when
acting  as  an  internet  intermediary,  facilitate  the
communication in Sri Lanka of any paid content that gives
publicity  to,  or  otherwise  promotes,  a  declared  online
location.

(4) An internet service provider or internet intermediary
shall be treated for the purposes of subsection (1) or (2), as
the case may be, as having taken reasonable steps to ensure
that any paid content that it includes or causes to be included
on  a  declared  online  location  is  not  communicated  in  Sri
Lanka on the declared online location, if it has taken such
steps as may be prescribed.

(5) An internet intermediary is treated for the purposes of
subsection (3), as having taken reasonable steps to ensure
that it does not facilitate the communication in Sri Lanka of
any paid content mentioned in that subsection if it has taken
such steps as may be prescribed.

(6) A person who fails to comply with the provisions of
subsection (1), (2) or (3) commits an offence and shall on
conviction  be  liable  to  imprisonment  for  a  term  not
exceeding seven years or to a fine not exceeding ten million
rupees and in the event of a second or subsequent conviction,
such term of imprisonment or fine or both such imprisonment
and fine may be doubled.

30. (1) Any person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka, who
solicits, receives or agrees to receive any financial or other
material benefit as an inducement or reward for operating a
declared  online  location  commits  an  offence  and  shall  on
conviction  be  liable  to  imprisonment  for  a  term  not
exceeding five years or to a fine not exceeding five million
rupees and in the event of a second or subsequent conviction,
such term of imprisonment or fine or both such imprisonment
and fine may be doubled.

Prohibition  on
deriving  benefits
from  operating  a
declared  online
location

Prohibition  on
providing
financial  support
to  declared
online  locations

36

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(2) Where a court convicts any person of an offence under
this section, the court shall order, in addition to imposing
on  that  person  the  punishment  in  subsection  (1),  the
forfeiture of any assets acquired through the commission of
an offence under this section.

31. (1) A person, whether in or outside Sri Lanka, who
expends or applies any property knowing or having reason
to believe that the expenditure or application supports, helps
or promotes the communication of prohibited statements to
the  end  users  in  Sri  Lanka  on  a  declared  online  location
commits  an  offence  and  shall  on  conviction  be  liable  to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to a fine
not exceeding five million rupees and in the event of a second
or subsequent conviction, such term of imprisonment or fine
or both such imprisonment and fine may be doubled.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply to an
internet service provider or an internet intermediary which
gives any consideration for the purpose of communicating
any  paid  content  in  Sri  Lanka  on  the  declared  online
location.

(3)  Where a court convicts any person of an offence under
this section, the court shall order, in addition to imposing
on  that  person  the  punishment  in  subsection  (1),  the
forfeiture  of  any  property  acquired  through  expending  or
applying any property by the commission of an offence under
this  section.

(4)  For  the  purpose  of  this  section,  “property”  means
money  and  all  other  property,  movable  or  immovable,
including  things  in  action  and  other  intangible  or
incorporeal property.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

37

PART VI

COUNTERACTING  INAUTHENTIC  ONLINE  ACCOUNTS  AND
COORDINATED  INAUTHENTIC  BEHAVIOUR

32. (1) If the conditions in subsection (2) are satisfied, the
Commission  may  issue  a  notice  in  writing  to  an  internet
intermediary, requiring it to do one or both of the following,
for the period specified in such notice: -

Counteracting
inauthentic
online  accounts
and  coordinated
inauthentic
behaviour

(a)

(b)

to refrain from permitting its services from being
used to communicate any prohibited statement in
Sri  Lanka  through  one  or  more  specified  online
accounts;  or

to refrain from permitting any person from using
one or more specified online accounts to interact
with any end user of its internet intermediary service
in Sri Lanka.

(2) The conditions referred to in subsection (1) shall be,

as follows:-

(a)

(b)

such  online  account  or  accounts  shall  have  been
created with the internet intermediary in respect of
which the notice under subsection (1) is issued;

either  a  prohibited  statement  has  been
communicated  in  Sri  Lanka  using  the  specified
online  account  or  coordinated  inauthentic
behaviour has been carried out in Sri Lanka using
the specified online account; and

(c)

the  Commission  has  determined  that  the  online
account  is  an  inauthentic  online  account  or  is
controlled by a bot.

38

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(3) The notice shall be deemed to be served on the internet
intermediary, if it is served by personal service, sent by post
to the last known address of such internet intermediary, or
served by electronic means to such person, or by any other
method  deemed  proper  by  the  Commission  depending  on
the nature of the case.

(4) Where a notice issued under subsection (1) has not
been  complied  with,  the  Commission  shall  submit  an
application to the Magistrate’s Court. Upon considering such
application the Magistrate may issue a conditional order on
the internet intermediary containing the directions applied
for by the Commission under subsection (1).

(5) An Order made under subsection (4) shall specify that

it has effect-

(a)

indefinitely;  or

(b)

for a specified period not exceeding three months.

(6) The order made under subsection (4) shall be deemed
to be served on the internet intermediary against whom the
order is made, if the order is served by personal service, sent
by registered post to the last known address of such person,
or  served  by  electronic  means  to  such  person,  or  by  any
other method deemed proper by the Magistrate depending
on  the  nature  of  the  case  and  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of this Act.

(7) The internet intermediary against whom a conditional
order is made under subsection (4) shall either comply with
such order or appear before the Magistrate as specified in
subsection (8) to show cause as to why the order shall not be
made absolute.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

39

(8)  Where  the  internet  intermediary  against  whom  a
conditional  order  is  made  under  subsection  (4)  intends  to
show  cause,  it  shall  appear  before  the  Magistrate  making
that  order,  within  a  period  of  two  weeks  of  making  such
order and move to have the order set aside or modified in the
manner hereinafter provided:

Provided  however,  any  internet  intermediary  against
whom a conditional order is made under subsection (4) shall
be bound to comply with the order with effect from the date
of making such order until such order is set aside or modified
by the Magistrate in terms of the provisions of this section.

(9) If the internet intermediary against whom an order is
made under subsection (4) neither complies with the order
nor appears before the Magistrate under subsection (8) he
shall  be  liable  to  the  penalty  specified  in  subsection  (11)
and the order shall be made absolute.

(10) (a) Where such internet intermediary appears before
the Magistrate in terms of subsection (8) to show cause by
way of petition and affidavit, the Magistrate shall hold an
inquiry which shall be concluded within two weeks of the
date of commencement of the inquiry.

(b) The Magistrate may having regard to the facts stated
by the internet intermediary against whom the conditional
order is made under subsection (4), either move to have the
order set aside or modified, if the Magistrate is satisfied that
the  order  under  this  section  is  not  reasonable  and  proper,
make an appropriate order subject to the provisions of this
Act.

(c) If the Magistrate is not so satisfied, the order made

under subsection (4) shall be made absolute.

(d) Where the order under subsection (4) is modified under

paragraph (b), such order shall be made absolute.

40

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(11) Where the internet intermediary against whom the
order is made under this section fails to comply with such
order  within  the  period  and  in  the  manner  ordered  by  the
Magistrate,  such  person  commits  an  offence  and  shall  on
conviction  be  liable  to  imprisonment  for  a  term  not
exceeding seven years  or to a fine not exceeding ten million
rupees, and the Magistrate may make an order directing the
Commission to take steps to enforce such order by preventing
access  to  the  prohibited  statement  within  Sri  Lanka,
notwithstanding anything contrary in any other law.

PART VII

APPOINTMENT OF EXPERTS TO ASSIST INVESTIGATIONS AND
THEIR POWERS

  33.  (1)  The  Minister  may,  in  consultation  with  the
Minister assigned the subject of Justice, appoint, by Order
published in the Gazette, any public officer or an employee
of  a  Government  department,  public  corporation  or  a
Government company, having the required qualification and
experience in electronic engineering or software technology
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  an  “expert”)  to  assist  the
Commission  in  the  investigation  of  an  offence  under  this
Act.

(2) For the purposes of this section-

“expert”  includes-

(a)

any member of the staff of any university who
possesses the prescribed qualification and, who
is  nominated  by  the  Vice-Chancellor  of  the
relevant  university;

Appointment  of
experts  to  assist
investigations

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

41

(b)

any  public  institution  which  in  the  opinion  of
the relevant university possesses the prescribed
qualification  and  is  nominated  by  the
Vice-Chancellor of such university:

Provided that where an “expert” cannot be
identified in terms of paragraph (a) or (b) above
the  Minister  may,  in  consultation  with  the
Vice-Chancellor  of  the  relevant  university
appoint any other institution which satisfies the
prescribed  qualification;

“Government  company”  means  a  company
registered or deemed to be registered under the
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 in which the
Government  or  a  public  corporation  or  local
authority holds fifty per centum or more of the
shares of that company;

“university”  means  any  university  established
under the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978.

(3)  The  qualification  and  experience  (having  regard  to
the specific areas of expertise) required to be fulfilled by an
officer appointed under subsection (1) and the manner and
mode of appointment and the conditions of appointment of
such officer shall be as prescribed.

(4) For the purpose of an investigation under this Act, an
expert called upon to assist the Commission shall, have the
power to-

(a)

enter  upon  any  premises  along  with  a  police
officer not below the rank of a sub-inspector;

42

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(b)

access  any  information  system,  computer  or
computer  system  or  any  programme,  data  or
information held in such computer to perform
any function or to do any such other thing;

(c)

require any person to disclose any traffic data;

(d)

orally examine any person; and

(e)

do  such  other  things  as  may  be  reasonably
required, for the purposes of this Act.

(5) An expert shall be paid such remuneration as may be
determined by the Minister in consultation with the Minister
assigned the subject of Finance.

(6) An expert may be called upon to assist the Commission
or any police officer in the investigation of an offence under
this Act and it shall be duty of the expert to render all such
assistance  as  may  be  required  for  the  purposes  of  such
investigation.  Where  any  proceedings  have  been
commenced consequent to the findings of an investigation,
it shall be the duty of the expert to make available for the
purposes  of  such  proceedings,  any  information,  data.
material or other matter that may be obtained by him in the
course of such investigation.

Duty  to  assist
investigations

34. Any person who is required by an expert, under the
authority of a police officer, to make any disclosure or to
assist in an investigation in respect of an offence under this
Act shall comply with such requirement.

Powers  of  search
and  seizure  with
warrant

35.  (1)  An  expert  who  assists  a  police  officer,  for  an
investigation in respect of an offence under this Act, under
the  authority  of  a  warrant  issued  in  that  behalf  by  a
Magistrate,  on  application  made  for  such  purpose  by  the
police officer, may -

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

43

(a) obtain  any  information  including  subscriber
information  and  traffic  data  in  the  possession  of
any internet service provider; or

(b)

intercept  any  wire  or  electronic  communication
including subscriber information and traffic data,
at any stage of such communication.

(2) The Minister may, by regulations prescribe the manner
in  which,  and  the  procedures  required  to  be  followed  in
respect  of,  the  retention  and  interception  of  data  and
information including traffic data, for the purposes of any
investigation in respect of an offence under this Act.

PART VIII

FINANCE

36. (1) The Commission shall have its own Fund.

Fund  of 
Commission

the

(2)  There shall be credited to the Fund of the Commission
all such sums of money as may be voted from time to time by
Parliament for the use of the Commission.

(3)  All sums of money required to defray expenditure
incurred by the Commission in the exercise and performance
of its duties and functions under this Act, shall be paid out
of the Fund of the Commission, and such other expenditure
to be charged on the Fund in terms of this Act.

(4)  The  Commission  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to  be
kept  of  the  receipts  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities
and all other transactions of the Commission.

(5)  The  financial  year  of  the  Commission  shall  be  the

calendar year.

44

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

Audit  of
accounts

37.  The  provisions  of  Article  154  of  the  Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to and in relation to the audit of the accounts of
the Fund of the Commission.

PART IX

GENERAL

Provisions  of  the
Code  of
Criminal
Procedure  Act  to
apply

38.  (1)  Save  as  expressly  provided  in  this  Act,  the
provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of
1979,  shall,  mutatis  mutandis,  apply  to  investigations,
institution of proceedings, the trial of offences and to appeals
from  judgments,  sentences  and  orders  pronounced  at  any
such trial under this Act.

(2) Where the Commission, on consideration of material
collected  in  the  course  of  investigations  conducted  under
this Act, is satisfied that any person has committed an offence
under the provisions of this Act, it may take steps to institute
criminal proceedings in terms of section 136 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

Jurisdiction

39.  (1)  The  jurisdiction  to  hear,  try  and  determine  all
offences under this Act shall be vested with the Magistrate’s
Court.

(2)  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  subsection
(1),  where  there  are  aggravating  circumstances  or
circumstances that give rise to public disquiet in connection
with the commission of an offence, it shall be lawful for the
Attorney-General to forward indictment directly to the High
Court.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

45

40.  Any person who attempts to commit an offence under
this Act or to cause such an offence to be committed, commits
an offence and shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment
of either description for a term not exceeding one half of the
maximum term provided for each of such offences or to a
fine not exceeding one half of the maximum fine provided
for each of such offences or to both such imprisonment and
fine.

41. A person who abets an offence under this Act  commits
an offence and shall be tried in the same manner, and shall
on  conviction  be  liable  to  the  same  punishment,  provided
for  in  this  Act  for  the  first-mentioned  offence.  In  this
subsection  the  expression  “abet”  shall  have  the  same
meaning as in sections 100 and 101 of the Penal Code.

42.  A  person  who  conspires  with  any  other  person  to
commit an offence under this Act commits an offence and
shall be tried in the same manner and shall on conviction be
liable to the same punishment provided for in this Act for
the first-mentioned offence. In this section, the expression
“conspire” shall have the same meaning as in section 113A
of the Penal Code.

43. Every offence under this Act shall be –

(a)

a  non-cognizable  offence  within  the  meaning  of
and  for  the  purposes  of  the  Code  of  Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979; and

(b)

a bailable offence within the meaning of the Bail
Act, No. 30 of 1997.

Attempt  to
commit  an
offence

Abetment  of  an
offence

Conspiring  to
commit  an
offence

Offences  under
this  Act  to  be
non-cognizable
and  bailable

44. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a

body of persons, then, if that body of persons is-

Offences  by
body  of  persons

46

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(a)

a body corporate, every director, or other principal
officer of that body corporate;

(b)

a firm, every partner of that firm; and

(c)

an unincorporated body, every individual who is a
controlling  member  of  such  body  and  every
principal  officer  of  that  body  responsible  for  its
management and control,

commits an offence:

Provided however, that no such person shall be deemed
to have commited an offence if he proves that the offence
was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised
all due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence.

Protection  from
action

45. (1) A suit or prosecution shall not lie against-

(a)

(b)

the Commission for any act which in good faith is
done  or  omitted  to  be  done,  by  the  Commission
under this Act; or

any member, staff of the Commission or an expert
appointed  under  section  33  for  any  act  which  in
good faith is done or omitted to be done, by such
person under this Act or any other Act.

(2) Any expenses incurred by the Commission in any suit
or prosecution brought by, or against, the Commission before
any court, shall be paid out of the Fund of the Commission
and any costs paid to, or recovered by, the Commission in
any such suit or prosecution, shall be credited to the Fund of
the Commission.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

47

(3) Any expenses incurred by any member, staff of the
Commission or an expert assisting the Commission, in any
suit or prosecution brought against such person in any court
in respect of any act which is done, or purported to be done,
by  such  person  under  this  Act  or  on  the  direction  of  the
Commission shall, if the court holds that the act was done in
good faith, be paid out of the Fund of the Commission, unless
such  expense  is  recovered  by  such  person  in  such  suit  or
prosecution.

46. (1) The Commission shall within three months of the
end of each financial year, prepare a report of its activities
during that year and its proposed activities in the following
year, and shall transmit a copy of such report together with a
copy  of  the  audited  accounts  of  the  Commission  for  that
year, to the Minister.

Annual  reports
of  the
Commission

(2)  The  Minister  on  receipt  of  a  report  prepared  under

subsection (1)-

(a)

shall cause a copy of such report to be placed before
Parliament;

(b) may  require  the  members  of  the  Commission  to
clarify  any  matter  arising  from  such  report  to
Parliament or a Committee of Parliament; and

(c) may require the Commission to publish such report
and  accounts  in  such  manner  as  the  Commission
considers appropriate to bring them to the attention
of the public.

(3) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1),

every annual report shall contain-

(a)

a general survey of developments during the year
to  which  the  report  relates  in  respect  of  matters
falling  within  the  scope  of  the  Commission’s
function and in particular, ensuring online safety;
and

Members  and
staff  of  the
Commission
deemed  to  be
public  servants

Commission
deemed  to  be  a
scheduled
institution  for
the  purpose  of
the  Anti-
Corruption  Act

Commission  to
make  rules

48

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(b) details of the measures taken by the Commission

to ensure online safety during that year.

47. All members and staff of the Commission shall be
deemed to be public servants within the meaning and for
the purposes of the Penal Code.

48. The Commission shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution  within  the  meaning  of  the  Anti-Corruption
Act, No. 9 of 2023, and the provisions of that Act shall be
construed  accordingly.

49. (1) The Commission shall make rules for the purpose

of the following matters:-

(a)

to issue the codes of practice applicable for internet
service providers and internet intermediaries who
provide  internet  based  communication  services,
specifying  security  practices  and  procedures
required to be followed by them; and

(b)

to  specify  the  manner  in  which  the  websites
providing social media platforms to the end users
in Sri Lanka shall be registered under this Act.

(2)    The  Commission  shall  make  the  first  rules  under
subsection (1), within twenty four months from the date of
commencement of this Act.

(3)  The Commission shall, prior to making rules under
subsection (1), hold public consultations for a period of not
less than two weeks.

(4)    The  period  of  public  consultation  referred  to  in
subsection (3) may be extended for a further period as may
be specified by the Commission.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

49

(5)  Every  rule  made  under  subsection  (1)  shall  be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the  date  of  publication  or  on  such  later  date  as  may  be
specified therein.

(6)  Every  rule  made  under  subsection  (1)  shall,  within
three months from the date of its publication in the Gazette,
be placed before Parliament for approval and any rule, which
is  not  so  approved,  shall  be  deemed  to  be  rescinded  with
effect  from  the  date  of  such  disapproval,  but  without
prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

50. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed or
in respect of which regulations are required or authorized to
be made under this Act.

Regulations

(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the  date  of  publication  or  on  such  later  date  as  may  be
specified therein.

(3)  Every  regulation  made  under  subsection  (1)  shall,
within three months from the date of its publication in the
Gazette,  be  placed  before  Parliament  for  approval.  Every
regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be
rescinded  as  from  the  date  of  disapproval,  but  without
prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(4)  Notification  of  the  date  on  which  any  regulation
is  deemed  to  be  so  rescinded  shall  be  published  in  the
Gazette.

51. In the event of any inconsistency or conflict between
the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  any  other  written  law,  the
provisions of this Act shall prevail.

This  Act  to
prevail  over
other  written  law

50

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

Interpretation

52. (1) In this Act unless the context otherwise requires–

“bot” means a computer program made or altered for

the purpose of running automated tasks;

“Chairman” includes the Deputy Chairman appointed

under subsection (6) of section 8;

“child” means a person under the age of eighteen years;

“coordinated  inauthentic  behaviour”  means  any
coordinated activity carried out using two or more
online accounts, in order to mislead the end users
in Sri Lanka of any internet intermediary service as
to any matter, but excludes any activity carried out
using online accounts-

(a) that are controlled by the same person; and

(b) none  of  which  is  an  inauthentic  online

account or is controlled by a bot;

“communicate” means communicating to one or more
end users in Sri Lanka on or through the internet, a
false statement or private information and includes
transmitting,  distributing,  sharing,  generating,
propagating,  publishing  or  tagging  and  the  term
“communication” shall be construed accordingly;

“computer”  means  an  electronic  or  similar  device

having  information  processing  capabilities;

“computer system” means a computer or group of inter-
connected  computers,  including  the  internet;

“declared  online  location”  means  an  online  location

declared under section 28;

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

51

“false statement” means a statement that is known or
believed by its maker to be incorrect or untrue and
is made especially with intent to deceive or mislead
but  does  not  include  a  caution,  an  opinion  or
imputation made in good faith;

“inauthentic online account” means an online account
that is controlled by a person other than the person
represented (whether by its user, unique identifier
or  other  information)  as  its  holder,  and  the
representation is made for the purpose of misleading
the  end  users  in  Sri  Lanka  of  any  internet
intermediary service as to the holder’s identity;

“internet  service  provider”  means  an  entity  offering
the  transmission,  routing,  or  providing  of
connections  for  digital  online  communications,
between or among points specified  by  a  user,  of
material  of  the  user’s  choosing,  without
modification to the content of the material as sent
those  offering
including 
received, 
or 
telecommunication 
the
under 
Telecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991;

services 

“internet intermediary” means a person who provides

any internet intermediary service;

“internet intermediary service” means-

(a) a  service  that  allows  end  users  to  access
materials originating from third parties on or
through  the  internet;

(b) a service of transmitting such materials to end

users on or through the internet;

52

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

(c) a service of displaying, to an end user who
uses the service to make an online search, an
index of search results, each of which links
that end user to content hosted or stored at a
location which is separate from the location
of the index of search results; or

(d) a service which facilities the communication
of paid content in any place by acting as the
link or part of the link between the owners or
operators of online locations and advertisers
and  internet  service  providers,  through  the
means of an internet based service,

but  excludes  any  act  done  for  the  purpose  of,  or
that is incidental to, the provision of a service of
giving  the  public  access  to  the  internet  or  a
computing resource service;

“material” means anything that consists of or contains

a statement;

“Minister” means the Minister to whom the function
of  administering  the  provisions  of  this  Act  is
assigned  in  terms  of  Article  44  or  45  of  the
Constitution;

“online  account”  means  an  account  created  with  an
internet  intermediary  for  the  use  of  an  internet
intermediary service;

“online  location”  means  any  website,  webpage,
chatroom or forum, or any other thing that is hosted
on a computer and can be seen, heard or otherwise
perceived by means of the internet;

“paid  content”  means  any  statement  that  is
communicated  in  any  place  upon  payment  of  a
consideration;

“Penal Code” means the Penal Code (Chapter 19);

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

53

“person” means a natural or legal person;

“prescribe” means prescribe by regulations;

“prohibited statement” means a statement specified in

section 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19 or 20;

“publish” means making available to the public on or

through  the  internet;

“social media platform” means a service provided by

an internet intermediary-

(a)  solely  for  the  purpose  of  enabling  online
social interaction between two or more end
users in Sri Lanka;

(b) which allows end users in Sri Lanka to link
to some or all of the other end users; or

(c) which allows the end users in Sri Lanka to

post material on the service,

but does not include any such service of which any
information communicated through the service is
not accessible by the end users in Sri Lanka;

“statement”  means  any  word  including  abbreviation
and initial, number, image (moving or otherwise),
sound,  symbol  or  other  representation,  or  a
combination of any of these.

(2) Any word or expression used in this Act and defined
in the Penal Code but not defined in this Act shall have the
same meaning assigned to such word or expression in the
Penal Code.

53.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

54

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

SCHEDULE

(section 21(1))

Section
of  the  Penal  Code

Offence  under  the
Penal  Code

Punishment

286A

Obscene  publication
&  c.  relating  to
Children

288

Causing  or  procuring
children  to  beg

288A

288 B

Hiring  or  employing
children  to  act  as
procurers  for  sexual
intercourse

Hiring  or  employing
children  to  traffic  in
restricted  articles

308A

Cruelty  to  children

Imprisonment  of  either
description  for  a  term  not
less  than  two  years  and
not  exceeding  ten  years
and  may 
be
also 
punished  with  fine

Imprisonment  of  either
description  for  a  term  not
exceeding  five  years  and
may  also  be  liable  to  a
fine

Imprisonment  of  either
description  for  a  term  not
less  than  two  years  and
not  exceeding  five  years
and  may  also  be  liable  to
a  fine

Imprisonment  of  either
description  for  a  term  not
less  than  five  years  and
not  exceeding 
seven
years  and  may  also  be
liable  to  a  fine

also 

Imprisonment  of  either
description  for  a  term  not
less  than  two  years  and
not  exceeding  ten  years
and  may 
be
punished with fine and be
pay
ordered 
compensation  of 
an
amount  determined  by
court  to  the  person  in
respect  of  whom  the
offence  was  committed
for  the  injuries  caused  to
such  person

to 

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

55

Section

of  the  Penal  Code

Offence  under  the
Penal  Code

Punishment

360A

Procuration

360 B

Sexual  exploitation
of  children

360 C

Trafficking

363

Rape

Imprisonment  of  either
description  for  a  term  not
less  than  two  years  and
not  exceeding  ten  years
and may also be punished
with  fine

Imprisonment  of  either
description  for  a  term  not
less  than  five  years  and
not  exceeding  twenty
years  and  may  also  be
punished  with  fine

Imprisonment  of  either
description  for  a  term  not
less  than  three  years  and
not  exceeding  twenty
years  and  may  also  be
punished  with  fine

Rigorous  imprisonment
for  a  term  not  less  than
seven  years  and  not
exceeding  twenty  years
and  fine  and  shall  in
addition  be  ordered  to
pay  compensation  of  an
amount  determined  by
court  to  the  person  in
respect  of  whom  the
offence  was  committed
for  the  injuries  caused  to
such  person  and  further
term  of  imprisonment
which  may  extend  up  to
case
years 
two 
pay
failure 
of 
compensation

in 
to 

56

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

Section

of  the  Penal  Code

Offence  under  the
Penal  Code

Punishment

and 

years 

Rigorous  imprisonment
for  a  term  not  less  than
ten 
not
exceeding  twenty  years
and  fine  and  shall  in
addition  be  ordered  to
pay  compensation  of  an
amount  determined  by
court  to  the  person  in
respect  of  whom  the
offence  was  committed
for  the  injuries  caused  to
such  person  and  further
term  of  imprisonment
which  may  extend  up  to
two  years  in  case  of
failure 
pay
compensation

to 

Rape

(a) by  a  public
officer  on  a
woman  in  his
custody

(b) by  a  person
being  on  the
management  or
staff  of  a  remand
home,  women’s
or  children’s
institution  &  c.
on  any  woman
inmate

(c) by  a  person
being  on  the
management  or
staff  of  a  hospital
on  a  woman  in
that  hospital

(d) on  a  pregnant

woman

(e) on  a  woman

under  eighteen
years

(f) on  a  mentally  or

physically
disabled  woman

(g) by  a  gang  of
persons

Rape  on  a
woman  under
sixteen  years  of
age  and  where
such  woman
stands

Rigorous  imprisonment
for  a  term  not  less  than
fifteen  years  and  not
exceeding  twenty  years
and  fine

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

57

Section
of  the  Penal  Code

Offence  under  the
Penal  Code

Punishment

towards  the  man  in
any  of  the  degrees  of
relationship
enumerated  in  section
364A

364A

Incest

365

Unnatural  offence

365A

Acts  of  gross
indecency  between
persons

Rigorous  imprisonment
for  a  term  not  less  than
seven  years  and  not
exceeding  twenty  years
and  fine

to 

and 

years 

Rigorous  imprisonment
for  a  term  not  less  than
ten 
not
exceeding  twenty  years
and  fine  and  shall  be
pay
ordered 
compensation  of 
an
amount  determined  by
court  to  the  person  in
respect  of  whom  the
offence  was  committed
for  the  injuries  caused  to
such  person

and 

and 

fine 

years 

Rigorous  imprisonment
for  a  term  not  less  than
ten 
not
exceeding  twenty  years
and 
shall
also  be  ordered  to  pay
an
compensation  of 
amount  determined  by
court  to  the  person  in
respect  of  whom  the
offence  was  committed
for  the  injuries  caused  to
such  person

58

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

Section
of  the  Penal  Code

Offence  under  the
Penal  Code

Punishment

365 B

Grave  sexual  abuse

to 

Rigorous  imprisonment
for  a  term  not  less  than
seven  years  and  not
exceeding  twenty  years
and fine and shall also be
pay
ordered 
compensation  of 
an
amount  determined  by
court  to  the  person  in
respect  of  whom  the
offence  was  committed
for  the  injuries  caused  to
such  person.

Online Safety Act, No. 9 of 2024

59

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

