PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

————————

RAJITHA  SENARATHNE  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)

A

BILL

to  incorporate  the  Rajitha Senarathne Foundation

——————

Presented by the Hon. (Ven.) Athuraliye Rathana Thero, M.P.
on 11th December, 2023

(Published in the Gazette on November 13, 2023)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

[Bill No. 223]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Rajitha  Senarathne  Foundation
(Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  RAJITHA SENARATHNE FOUNDATION

WHEREAS  a  foundation  called  and  known  as  the
“Rajitha Senarathne Foundation” heretofore been formed in
Sri  Lanka  for  the  purpose  of  effectually  carrying  out  and
transacting all subjects and matters  connected with the said
foundation according to the rules agreed by its members:

5

Preamble.

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  foundation  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the objects and matters
for which it was formed and has applied to  incorporated and
it will be for the public advantage to grant the application:

10

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Rajitha  Senarathne

Short  title.

Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2016.

15

20

2. From and after commencement of this Act, such and so
many  persons  as  are  members  of  the  Corporation  “Rajitha
Senarathne  Foundation”  (herein  after  referred  to  as  the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the corporation hereby constituted shall and become a body
corporate with perpetual succession under the name and title
of  Rajitha Senarathne Foundation (herein after referred to as
the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued in
all  Courts  with  full  power  and  authority  to  have  and  use  a
common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

3. The  general  objectivs  for  which  the  Corporation  is

25

constituted are hereby declared to be:—

(a)

(b)

initiate  Kalutara  District  Resource  Center  for  the
extension  of  resources  base  centered  at  the  urban
areas to the rural levels;
identify  requirements,  problems,  resources  and

Incorporation
of  the  Rajitha
Senarathne
Foundation.

The  general
objectivs
of  the
Corporation.

2

Rajitha  Senarathne  Foundation
(Incorporation)

market potential of the Kalutara District and build
up  small  scale  industry  structure  with  the
paricipation of youth of the Kaluthara District;

(c) build  up  integrated  economic  development
programme  in  the  Kaluthara  district  with  the
participation of government, non government and
private sectors;

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

implement Medical Clinics and welfare programmes
to  solve  health  and  incidental  problems  in  the
Kaluthara District;

implement  environment  preservation  and  make
aware the community in this regard;

initiate self employment programmes to strengthen
the  economic  status  of  the  women  in  Sri  Lanka,
provide them with knowledge, monetary assistance
or assistance by any other means to involve in self
employments or enabling them to sell their products
or purchase them;

conduct  educational  and  vocational  programmes
for  the  youth  and  initiate  business  entrepreneurs,
provide them with financial or other assistance to
initiate self employment or provide facilities to sell
their products or purchase them;

conduct lectures seminars, discussions and carnivals
to promote the objectivs  of the Corporation;

cooperate with other corporations, organizations or
societies which are similar to the objectivs  of the
Corporation.

5

10

15

20

25

Rajitha  Senarathne  Foundation
(Incorporation)

3

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do  perform
and  execute  all  such  Acts  matters  and  things,  whatsoever
as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance
of the objects of the Corporation or any of them including
the powers to open operate or close bank accounts to borrow
or raise moneys with or without security to receive or collect
or  accept  grants  and  donations  to  invest  its  funds  to  the
Corporation and to engage employ and dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objectivs  of the
Corporation.

General
Powers  of  the
Corporation.

5.

(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to the
rules  of  the  Corporation  be  administered  by  an  Executive
Committee  consisting  of  officers  and  other  personnel
appointed in accordance with the Section 6 of the Act.

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the
Corporation.

(2)  The  Executive  Committee  which  held  the  office  of
the  Corporation  before  the  date  of  implementation  of  the
Act,  shall  be  the  first  Executive  Committee  of  the
Corporation.

6.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time
to time at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules,  not  inconsistent  with  the  provisions  of  this  Act  or
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—

Rules  of  the
Corporation.

(a) the classification of membership and sum of the fee
payable by members of each class and the admission,
wihtdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b) the election of office bearers, the resignation from
or  vacation  of  or  removal  from  office  and  office
bearers and their powers, conduct and duties;

(c) the  election    of  the  members  of  the  executive
committee and its powers, conduct and duties and
the  terms  of  office  of  members  of  the  executive
committee;

5

10

15

20

25

30

4

Rajitha  Senarathne  Foundation
(Incorporation)

(d) the  powers,  conduct,  duties  and  functions  of  the
various  officers,  agents  and  servants  of  the
Corporation;

5

10

(e) the  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  summoning
and  holding  of  meetings  of  the  Executive
Committee the times, places, notices and agenda of
such  meetings  the  quorum  and  the  matters  to  be
discussed;

(f) the administration and management of the porperty
of the Corporation the custody and its funds and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and

(g) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and accomplishment of its objects.

15

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or  replaced at a like  manner as a rule may
be made under subsection (1).

(3) Every members of the Corporation shall be subject to

the rules of the Corporation.

20

25

30

7. All debts and liabilities existing on the day preceding
the  date  of  commencement  of  this  Act  shall  be  paid  and
discharged  by  the  Corporation  hereby  constituted  and  all
debts due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to
the foundation on that date shall be paid to the Corporation
hereby  constituted.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Foundation.

8.    The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property movable or immovable, which
may  become  vested  in  it  by  virtue  of  any  purchase,  grant,
gift,  or  testamentary  disposition  or  otherwise  and  all  such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of
this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation with full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of encumber or change the same.

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable.

Rajitha  Senarathne  Foundation
(Incorporation)

5

5

10

15

20

9.

(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
money heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of  gifts,
allocations bequest, donation, subscription, contribution fees
or grants for or and on account of the corporation shall be
deposited  in  one  or  more  banks  as  the  Corporation  shall
determine.

Funds  of  the
Corporation.

(2)  There  shall  be  paid  out  from  the  fund  of  the
Corporation, all sums of  money incurred by the Corporation
in the exercise of its objects.

10.    The seal of the  Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever in the presence of the President,
Secretary or the Treasurer of the Corporation and shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any person
as witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation.

11. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice,  or
affect  the  rights  of  the  Republic  or  anybody  politic  or
corporate  or  of  any  other  persons,  except  such  as  are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others.

12.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency.

6

Rajitha  Senarathne  Foundation
(Incorporation)

Annual  subscription  of  English  Bills  and  Acts  of  the  Parliament  Rs.  885  (Local),  Rs.  1,180
(Foreign),  Payable  to  the  SUPERINTENDENT,  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU,  DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December  each  year  in  respect  of  the  year  following.

