THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of February 12, 2021

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 15.02.2021)

SISIRA  JAYAKODY  SIYAPATHA  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)

(Private Member's Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Sisira Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Premnath C. Dolawatte M.P.
for  Colombo District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 17.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
(Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SISIRA JAYAKODY SIYAPATHA
FOUNDATION

WHEREAS  an  Society  called  and  known  as  the  “Sisira
Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation” has heretofore been formed
in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its
objects and transacting all matters connected  with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  foundation  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters  for  which  it  was  formed  and  has  applied  to  be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such  application  :

BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Sisira  Jayakody
Siyapatha Foundation  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2021.

Short  title

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of  the Sisira
Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate, with
perpetual succession, under the name and style of  the “Sisira
Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation” (hereinafter   referred to as
the  “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued with
full power and authority to have and  use a common seal and to
alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporation
of  the  Sisira
Jayakody
Siyapatha
Foundation

5

10

15

20

25

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be —

The  general
objects  of  the
Corporation

(a) to conduct various studies, lectures and seminars in

order to encourage the self employments;

2

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
(Incorporation)

(b) to rehabilitate the religious places which have been

not paid attention so far;

(c) to  implement  a  mobile  service  programme  called
“Jana Sahana” with the aim of looking into the matters
and solving the various problems faced by people;

5

(d) to implement a scholarship programme to the under
graduate students and to conduct lectures and seminars
for them in order that they are fully prepared to meet
the requirements of the job market;

10

(e) to grant supports and help for the senior citizens and
to implement various assisting programmes on them;

15

20

25

(f) to  provide  necessary  trainings  assistance  and
sponsorship  for  those  who  are  unemployed,  with  a
view of promoting them for self employments;

(g) to  develop  relationship  with  the  national  and
international  organisations  having  the  similar
objectives;  and

(h) to do all such other acts and things that are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to the attainment of
the above objects.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written  law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform and execute, all such acts and matters  as  necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation or any one of them, including the power—

General
Powers  of  the
Corporation

(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,

in cash or kind;

(b) to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold, take
or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise dispose

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
(Incorporation)

3

of, any movable or immovable property and construct,
maintain and alter any buildings or works necessary
or convenient for the business of the Corporation;

(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory  notes  and  other  negotiable  instruments
and  to  open,  operate  and  close  bank  accounts  and
borrow or raise money with or without security;

(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes  of  the  Corporation  in  such  manner  as  the
Board of Management may determine;

(e) to enter into agreement or contracts with any person,
or body of persons whether incorporated in Sri Lanka
or  abroad  or  with  any  Government  Department,
Corporation,  Board,  Provincial  Council  or  Local
Authority for the achievement of the objects of the
Corporation;

(f) to  determine  the  fees  to  be  paid  in  respect  of
registration  of  different  categories  of  membership;
and

(g) appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services of
officers and servants of the Corporation and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation.

5

10

15

20

25

30

5. 

(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other  provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being  of  the  Corporation  be  administered  by  a  Board  of
Directors consisting of Chairman, the Secretary, Treasurer
and another Eight  members elected in accordance with such
rules.

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the
Corporation

4

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
(Incorporation)

(2) The Board of Management of the  Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Directors of the day
immediately  preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this
Act.

(3)  A  member  of  the  Board  of  Directors  other  than  the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors  a  new  member  shall  be  appointed  to  fill  such
vacancy and such a new member shall hold office for a period
of four years.

6.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any general meeting and by the votes of not less than
two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any other
written law, for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion of
members, the election of the Board of Management, for the
conduct of the duties of the office bearers, agents, officers
and  servants  of  the  Corporation,  for  the  procedure  to  be
followed in the transaction of business by the Corporation
and  Board  of  Management  and  generally,  for  the
management  of  the  affairs  of  the  Corporation  and  the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may
at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.

(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to

the rules of the Corporation.

Rules  of  the
Corporation

7.

(1)  The  Corporation  shall  have  its  own  Fund.  All
moneys received by way of gifts, bequest, donation, transfer,
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the Board
of Management shall determine.

Funds  of  the
Corporation

5

10

15

20

25

30

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
(Incorporation)

5

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.

5

10

(3)  The  moneys  and  property  of  the  Corporation
whosoever  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion of the objects as setforth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.

8.

(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the

calendar year.

Accounts  and
Audit

(2)  The  Corporation  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to  be
kept  of  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities  and
all other transactions of the Corporation.

15

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a

qualified auditor as  may be determined by the Board.

In this section, “Qualified Auditor” means —

(a)

20

25

(b)

30

an  individual  who  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as
Accountant  issued  by    the  Council  of  such
institute;  or

a  firm  of  Accountants  each  of  the  resident
partners  of  which,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or  of  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
institute.

6

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
(Incorporation)

9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any  instrument  whatsoever,  except  in  the  presence  of  the
Chairman and the Secretary who shall sign their names to
the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall  be  independent  of  the  signing  of  any  person  as  a
witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation

10. All debts and liabilities of the foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid by the Corporation, hereby constituted and all
debts  due  to,  and  subscriptions  and  contributions  payable
to the foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Foundation

11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,
to take and  hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift,  testamentary  disposition  or  otherwise,  and  all  such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

12.

If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Corporation  there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation but shall be given or
transferred to some other Foundation or Foundations having
objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is, or
are, by its rules thereof prohibited from distributing and income
or property among its or their members. Such Foundation or
Foundations  shall  be  determined  by  the  Board  at  or
immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.

5

10

15

20

25

30

13. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for  any  other  purpose,  be  liable  to  make  any  contribution
exceeding  the  amount  of  annual  subscription  payable  by
him to the Corporation.

35

Limitation  of
liabilities  of
members

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
(Incorporation)

7

14. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate  or  of  any  other  person,  except  such  as  are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.

5

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

15.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

8

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
(Incorporation)

Department  of  Government  Printing

