PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

HEART TO HEART TRUST FUND (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 10 OF 2024

[Certified on 19th of  February, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 26, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Preamble

Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 2024

1

[Certified on 19th of February, 2024]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 2/2019

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE HEART TO HEART TRUST FUND

WHEREAS  a  Trust  Fund  called  and  known  as  the
“Heart to Heart Trust Fund” has heretofore been established
by the Trust Deed bearing number 309 dated December 1,
2014 attested by N. S. Malinee Senanayake, Notary public of
Colombo in Sri Lanka  for the purpose of effectually carrying
out its objects and transacting all  matters connected with the
said  Trust  Fund  according  to  the  rules  agreed  to  by  its
members:

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Trust  Fund  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the said application:

BE  it  therefore  enacted  by  Parliament  of  the  Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Heart  to  Heart  Trust

Short  title

Fund (Incorporation) Act, No. 10 of 2024.

2. (1) From  and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Heart to Heart Trust Fund” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Trust Fund”) and shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the body corporate hereby constituted, shall have perpetual
succession under the name and style of the “Heart to Heart
Trust Fund” (hereinafter referred to as the “body corporate”)
and by that name may sue and be sued with full power and
authority  to  have,  and  use  a  common  seal  and  to  alter  the
same at its pleasure.

Incorporation  of
the  Heart  to
Heart  Trust
Fund

2

Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 2024

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a voluntary
social service organization within the meaning, and for the
purpose  of  the  voluntary  social  services  organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions  of  that  Act  shall  apply  to  and  in  relation  to  the
management of the affairs of the body corporate.

General  objects
of  the  body
corporate

3.  (1) The general objects for which the body corporate

is constituted are hereby declared to be–

(a)

to promote the awareness of the general public on
all  matters  pertaining  to  heart  diseases  including
the  cause  and  prevention  of  such  diseases  by
organizing  lectures,  seminars  and  other  pertinent
programmes; and

(b)

to provide financial assistance to heart patients in
need of funds who seek treatments particularly at
any hospital of Sri Lanka,

 subject to any applicable written law, to the extent permitted
by such law.

(2)  In  the  implementation  of  the  objects  specified  in
subsection  (1),  the  body  corporate  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation shall be carried out without any distinction
based  on  race,  religion,  language,  caste,  sex,  political
opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.

Body  corporate
to  ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of
Ministry  or
Department  of
the  Government
or  Provincial
Council

4. The  objects  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  carried
out in such manner so as not to create any conflict between
the work of the body corporate and any work being carried
out  simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or of any Provincial Council.

Management  of
affairs  of  the
body  corporate

5. 

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules
made under section 7, the management and administration
of the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by a

Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 2024

3

Board of Trustees consisting of such number of office bearers
as may be specified by the rules made under section 7.

(2) (a) The Board of Trustees of the Trust Fund holding
office  on  the  day  immediately  preceding  the  date  of
commencement of this Act, shall subject  to the rules made
under paragraph (b) of this subsection, function as an Interim
Board of Trustees of the body corporate until the first Board
of Trustees is appointed or elected in the manner provided
for by rules made under section 7.

(b)  Subject to the provisions of subsections (2), (3) and
(4) of section 7, the Interim Board of Trustees shall have the
power  to  make  rules  for  the  interim  administration  of  the
body corporate not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law.

(c)  Any decision of the Interim Board of Trustees shall be

taken by the majority of its members present.

(d)  The first Board of Trustees of the body corporate shall
be  appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

(3)  (a)  Every  office  bearer  of  the  Board  of  Trustees
including  the  patrons  and  advisers,  shall  be  appointed  or
elected for a period of three years and any such office bearer,
patron or adviser shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-
election after lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Board of Trustees shall having regard to the rules
of the body corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such
vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term of
office of the member whom he succeeds.

Powers  of  the
body  corporate

4

Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 2024

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects
of  the  body  corporate  or  any  one  of  them,  including  the
power–

(a)

(b)

to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwise
obtain  lands  or  buildings  which  may  by  required
for the purposes of the body corporate and to deal
with or dispose of the same as determined by the
Board  of  Trustees  with  a  view  to  promoting  the
objects of the body corporate;

to  enter  into  and  perform  or  carry  out,  whether
directly or through any officer or agent authorized
in  that  behalf  by  the  body  corporate,  all  such
contracts or agreements as may be necessary for the
attainment of the objects or the exercise of the powers
of the body corporate;

(c)

to borrow or raise funds with or withour securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind for the attainment of the objects of the body
corporate:

Provided that, the Board of Trustees shall obtain
the  prior  written  approval  of  the  Department  of
External Resources in respect of all foreign grants,
gifts or donations made to the body corporate;

(d)

to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts
in any bank;

Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 2024

5

to  invest  any  funds  that  are  not  immediately
required for the purposes of the body corporate, in
such manner as the Board of Trustees may determine;

to  undertake,  accept,  execute,  perform  and
administer any lawful trust having objects similar
to  the  body  corporate  or  any  real  or  personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;

to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the body corporate and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them  such  salaries,  allowances  and  gratuities,  as
may be determined by the body corporate in terms
of rules made under section 7 of the Act;

to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a  view  to  promoting  the  objects  of  the  body
corporate;

to  liaise  and  co-ordinate  with  other  local  and
foreign  institutions  having  similar  objects  to  that
of the body corporate;

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

(j)

to train officers and servents in Sri Lanka or abroad
for the purposes of the body corporate; and

(k) generally to do all such acts and things authorized
by this Act for the achievement of the objects of the
body  corporate.

7.

(1)  It  shall  be  lawful  for  the  body  corporate,  from
time to time at any general meeting of the body corporate
and by a majority  of not less than two-thirds of the members
present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—

Rules  of  the
body  corporate

6

Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 2024

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by the members ;

the  election  of  office  bearers  of  the  Board  of
Trustees or vacation of or removal from office of
office bearers and the powers, duties and functions
of the office bearers ;

the  terms  and  conditions  of  appoinment,  powers,
functions and duties of  various officers and servants
of the body corporate;

the  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  summoning
and holding of meetings of the body corporate and
of the Board of Trustees or notices and agenda of
such  meetings,  the  quorum  and  the  conduct  of
business thereat;

the qualifications and disqualifications to be a member
of the Board of Trustees and the body corporate;

the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate; and

(g) generally the management of the affairs of the body
corporate  and  the  accomplishment  of  its’  objects
and dissolution of the body corporate.

(2)  Any  rule  made  by  the  body  corporate  may  be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like  meeting
and in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1) of
this  section.

(3)  The  rules  made  under  subsection  (1),  shall  be
published in the Gazette within three months upon making
of such rules and shall come into effect on the date thereof;

Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 2024

7

(4) Every rule made by the body corporate shall, within
three months after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before  Parliament  for  approval.  Any  rule  which  is  not  so
approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of  such  disapproval,  but  without  prejudice  to  anything
previously  done  thereunder.

(5)  Notification  of  the  date  on  which  any  such  rule  is
deemed  to  be  so  rescinded  under  subsection  (4)  shall  be
published in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all times

be subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8. The  Board  of  Trustees  shall  maintain  a  register  of
members in which name, address and other essential details
of the members shall be inscribed.

Register  of
members

9.

(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

Fund  of  the
body  corporate

(2)  All  moneys  received  by  way  of  gift,  bequest,
donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grant for and
on account of the body corporate shall be deposited in one
or  more  banks  approved  by  the  Board  of  Trustees  to  the
credit  of  the  body  corporate  subject  to  the  provisions  of
section 6(c):

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money
as  are  required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.

(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
Auditing

8

Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 2024

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited annually
by the Auditor-General or qualified auditor appointed by the
Auditor-General  in  terms  of  provisions  of  Article  154  of
Constitution and be certified by the Auditor-General or such
qualified auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section “a qualified auditor”

means–

(a)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or

(b)

a firm Accountants, each of the resident partners of
which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as  an  Accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
Institute.

11.

(1) The Board of Trustees shall prepare a report of
the activities of the body corporate for each financial year
and submit such report together with the audited statement
of accounts certified by the Auditor- General or a qualified
auditor,  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister
assigned  the  subject  of  Health  and  to  the  Registrar  of
Voluntary Social Service Organizations appointed under the
Voluntary  Social  Service  Organization  (Registration  and
Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of
six months of the year succeeding the year to which such
report relates.

Annual  Report

Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 2024

9

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreign
and local moneys received by the body corporate during the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).

12. All debts and liabilities of the Trust Fund existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  body  corporate  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to  and  subscriptions  and
contributions payable to the Trust Fund on that day shall be
paid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable  to
the  Trust  Fund

13. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall be able and capable in
law to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentaty disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the body corporate for the purpose
of  this  Act  and  subject  to  the  rules  of  the  body  corporate
made under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Body  corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

14. The  moneys  and  property  of  the  body  corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion  of  the  objects  of  the  body  corporate  and  no
portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  transferred  directly  or
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwise
howsoever to the members of the body corporate.

Application  of
moneys  and
property

15.

(1)  The  seal  of  the  body  corporate  shall  not  be
affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence
two members of the  Board of Trustees  who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.

Seal  of  the  body
corporate

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

10

Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 2024

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Board of Trustees as may be decided
by such Board of Trustees.

16.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  body  corporate
there  remains    after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be  distributed  among  the  members  of  the  body  corporate,
but  shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  any  other  institution
having objects similar to those of the body corporate, and
which is  by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its members.

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  subsection  (1)  the  appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at  a  general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic

17. Nothing  in this Act contained  shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
other body corporate.

Interpretation

18.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:–

“bank”  means  a  bank  licensed  under  the  provisions  of

the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;

“law”  shall  have  the  same  meaning  assigned  to  such

expression in the Constitutions; and

“written law” means, any law and subrdinate legislation
including statutes made by a Provincial Council and
regulations  made  under  such  statutes,  Orders,
Proclamations,  Rules,  By-laws  and  Regulations
made or issued by any body or person having power
or authority under any law to make or issue the same.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case  of
inconsistency

19.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Heart to Heart Trust Fund (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 2024

11

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

