PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

————————
SAMADHI  HEALTH  SERVICE,  ENVIRONMENT,
AGRICULTURAL,  CULTURAL  AND  SPORT  CENTRE
(INCORPORATION)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Samadhi Health Service, Environment, Agricultural,
Cultural and Sport Centre

————————

Presented by the Hon. Buddhika Pathirana, M. P.
 for Matara District on 06th of October 2021

(Published in the Gazette on September 27, 2021)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

[Bill No. 73]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

1
Samadhi Health Service, Environment,
Agricultural, Cultural and Sport Centre  (Incorporation)

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SAMADHI HEALTH SERVICE,
ENVIRONMENT, AGRICULTURAL, CULTURAL AND SPORT CENTRE

WHEREAS  a  Centre  called  and  known  as  the  “Samadhi
Health Service, Environment, Agricultural, Cultural and Sport
Centre”  has  heretofore  been  formed    in  Sri  Lanka  for  the
purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and transacting
all matters connected  with the said Centre according to the
rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND WHEREAS the said Centre has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was established, and has applied to be incorporated
and it will be expedient to grant the said application :

BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

5

10

1. This Act may be cited as the Samadhi Health Service,
Environment,  Agricultural,  Cultural  and  Sport  Centre
(Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2021.

15

Short  title

2.

(1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now  are members of  the
Samadhi Health Service, Environment, Agricultural, Cultural
and Sport Centre (hereinafter referred to as the “Centre”) or
shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession,
under the name and style of  the  “Samadhi  Health  Service,
Environment,  Agricultural,  Cultural  and  Sport  Centre”
(hereinafter referred to as the  “body corporate”) and by that
name may sue and be sued, with full power and  authority to
have and  use a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporation
of  the
Samadhi
Health
Service,
Environment,
Agricultural,
Cultural  and
Sport  Centre

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be —

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

(a) to  assist  students  who  prepare  for  government
examinations  by  conducting  lectures,  seminars  and
study tours;

20

25

30

2
Samadhi Health Service, Environment,
Agricultural, Cultural and Sport Centre  (Incorporation)

(b) to  organize  academic  lectures,  seminars,  executive
level of guidance, connected necessary exhibitions,
and  educational  programme  to  improve  the
intelligence  of  the  general  public  and  to  establish
libraries, preserve environment and to act in giving
priority to the balance development;

(c) to conduct training programs of all types in the field
of  mass  communication  (television,  radio,  internet,
newspapers  and  publications)  and  maintain  such
units;

(d) to assist needy students by providing them with books
and other equipment and school uniforms and to grant
scholarships  to  students  who  ate  in  the  secondary
and tertiary stage of their education;

(e) to identify the inherent talents of students and youth
at rural, district and provincial levels in areas such as
sports,  literature  and  art  and  to  encourage  them  to
excel in them by providing the required infrastructure;

(f) to identify projects suitable for young school leavers
and assist them by carrying out such projects with a
view to training such youth to meet the competitive
demands for future employment;

(g) to  assist those in need of financial and other forms of
assistance to enhance their inborn talents and skills
enabling them to engage in self-employment;

(h) to extend all forms of assistance to the differently-
abled  in  developing  their  personality  and  to
implement all types of support programs relevant to
preschool/early  childhood  education;

5

10

15

20

25

3
Samadhi Health Service, Environment,
Agricultural, Cultural and Sport Centre  (Incorporation)

(i) to identify the health requirements of the people in
rural and remote areas and to conduct medical camps
and clinics in such areas and to supply medicines to
the needy through such camps and clinics;

(j) to conduct awareness programmes for youth in order
to promote a tobacco, alcohol and a drug free society
and build a healthy, disciplined, patriotic and human
generation;

(k) to organize and operate centers in all the divisional
secretariat divisions across the Island in addition to
the centers that are operating in Matara, Malimbada,
Ja-Ela and Meda Dumbara;

(l) to  encourage  the  farmers,  fishermen  and  establish

young farmers and fishermen’s organizations;

(m) to utilize the labour of youth and adults for the welfare
of  the  general  public  and  during  emergencies  and
national  disasters;

(n) to foster and promote mutual understanding, a spirit
of  national  consciousness,  goodwill  and  friendship
among the citizens of Sri Lanka and to promote peace
and harmony among the Sinhala, Tamil, Muslim and
Burgher communities in Sri Lanka;

(o) to promote religious harmony, mutual understanding,
peaceful  co-existence,  spiritual  development  and
friendship  among  the  people  of  Sri  Lanka  through
religious, cultural, social and economic interactions;

(p) to conduct programmes to discuss the problems faced
by  the  youth  in  different  areas  in  Sri  Lanka  due  to
lack  of  infrastructure  facilities  such  as  electricity,
water,  housing  and  roads  and  provide  amnesties  to
such  needy  people;

5

10

15

20

25

30

4
Samadhi Health Service, Environment,
Agricultural, Cultural and Sport Centre  (Incorporation)

(q) to  organize  and  mobilize  people  to  deploy  them  in
voluntary  activities  in  order  to  find  solutions  to
shortcomings in infrastructure;

(r) to  facilitate  the  exchange  of  delegations  with  other
international  organizations  having  similar  objects
with a view to building friendship and understanding
between Sri Lanka and other countries;

(s) to  assemble  and  mobilize  all  groups  under  this
Academy with a view to promoting national harmony
and peace within Sri Lanka;

(t) to  organize,  maintain  and  develop  the  pre-training
and  educational  programme  for  those  children  and
youths  who  are  of  poor  and  lack  of  educational
facilities and to contribute the energy of youths for
the public welfare;

(u) to  pave  the  way  to  obtain  pre-vocational  training,
sports training and training on leadership, computer,
media, Tamil, English and any other languages; and

(v) to  do  all  such  other  acts,  matters  and  things  as  are
incidental  or  conductive  to  the  attainment  of  the
objectives of the body corporate.

(2)  In  the  implementation  of  the  objects  specified  in
subsection  (1)  the  body  corporate  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation  shall  be  carried  out  without  any
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex,
political opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.

4.  The  objects  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  carried
out in such manner so as not to create any conflict between
the work of the body corporate and any work being carried
out  simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or any Provincial Council.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Body
corporate  to
ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of
Ministry  of
Department
of  the  Central
Government
or  Province

5
Samadhi Health Service, Environment,
Agricultural, Cultural and Sport Centre  (Incorporation)

5.

(1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act,
Management of the Affairs of the body corporate shall be
carried out by a Board of Management (hereinafter referred
to as “the Board”) consisting of such number of office bearers
as may be specified by the rules made under Section 7.

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the  body
corporate

(2)(a) The Board of Management of the foundation that
holds office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Board of
the  body  corporate  until  the  first  Board  is  appointed  or
elected  in  the  manner  provided  for  by  rules  made  under
Section 7.

(b) The  first  Board  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be
appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

(3)  (a) Every  office  bearer  of  the  Board  including  the
patrons  and  advisors,  shall  be  appointed  or  elected  for  a
period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or
advisor  shall  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  or  re-election
after lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of the body
corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

5

10

15

20

25

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary
or desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including
the power—

30

Powers  of  the
body
corporate

(a) to  purchase,  acquire,  rent,  construct,  renovate  and
otherwise  obtain  lands  or  buildings  which  may  be

6
Samadhi Health Service, Environment,
Agricultural, Cultural and Sport Centre  (Incorporation)

required for the purpose of the body corporate and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objeccts of
the body corporate;

5

(b) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,

in cash or kind with or without security:

Provided  that,  the  Board  shall  obtain  the  prior
written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign grants,
gifts or donations made to the body corporate;

(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory  notes  and  other  negotiable  instruments
and to open, operate and close accounts in any banks;

(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the body corporate in such manner as the
Board may determine;

(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and administer
any lawful trust or any real or personal property with
a  view  to  promoting  the  objects  of  the  body
corporate;

(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of  officers  and  servants  of  the  body  corporate  and
exercise  disciplinary  control  over  them  and  to  pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the body corporate;

(g) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects
of the body corporate.

10

15

20

25

30

7
Samadhi Health Service, Environment,
Agricultural, Cultural and Sport Centre  (Incorporation)

7.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Body corporate, from
time to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not
less than two thirds of the members present and voting, to
make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or
any other written law, for all or any of the following matters:–

Rules  of  the
Corporation

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by members;

the  election  of  office  bearers  of  the  Board  or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;

the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties of the various officers, agents
and servants of the Body corporate;

the  procedure  to  be  followed  at  the  summoning
and  holding  of  meetings  of  the  Board,  or  any
subcommittee thereof, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;

the  qualification  and  disqualification  to  be  a
member of the Board and the Body corporate;

the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate; and

5

10

15

20

25

(g)

the management of the affairs of the Body corporate
and  the  accomplishment  of  its’  objects  and
dissolution of the Body corporate.

(2)

The  rules  made  by  the  Body  corporate  may  be
amended,  altered,  added  to  or  rescinded  at  a  like  meeting
and in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

30

8
Samadhi Health Service, Environment,
Agricultural, Cultural and Sport Centre  (Incorporation)

(3)

The members of the Body corporate shall at all time

be subject to rules of the Body corporate.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be published

in the Government Gazette.

5

8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members be inscribed.

Register  of
members

Fund  of  the
Body
corporate

9.

(1) The Body corporate shall have its own Fund.

10

15

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,
subscription, contribution, fees or grants for an account of
the Body corporate shall be deposited in one or more banks
approved by the Board to the credit of the Body corporate.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money
as  are  required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its power, duties and functions under the Act.

10.

(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
the  Auditing

20

(2) The Body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept  of  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities  and
all other transactions of the Body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the Body corporate shall be audited
by a qualified auditor appointed by Auditor General in terms
of Article 154 of the Constitution.

25

(4)  For  the  purpose  of  this  section  “qualified  auditor”

means—

(a)

an  individual  who  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,

9
Samadhi Health Service, Environment,
Agricultural, Cultural and Sport Centre  (Incorporation)

5

(b)

or  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant  issued  by    the  Council  of  such
institute;  or

a  firm  of  Accountants  each  of  the  resident
partners  of  which,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or  of  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.

10

15

20

25

30

35

Annual
report

11.

(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of  the  Body  corporate  for  each  financial  year  and  submit
such report togother with the audited statement of accounts
to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the
subject of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary
Social  Services  Organizations  appointed  under  the
Voluntary  Social  Services  Organization  (registration  and
Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of
six months of the year succeeding the year to which such
report telates.

(2)  A  separate  account  relating  to  the  foreign  and  local
moneys received by the Body corporate during the financial
year  shall  be  attached  to  the  report  referred  to  in
subsection (1).

12. All  debts  and  liabilities  of  the  Centre  existing  on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Body corporate hereby constituted, and
all debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Centre on that day shall be paid to the Body corporate
for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
the  payable
to  the  Centre

13. Subject  to  the  provision  of  this  Act,  the  body
corporate shall be able and capable in law, to take and hold
any  property  movable  or  immovable  which  may  become
vested in it by virtue of any purchasegrant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held

Body
corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

10
Samadhi Health Service, Environment,
Agricultural, Cultural and Sport Centre  (Incorporation)

by body corporate for the purposes of this Act, and subject
to  the  rules  of  the  body  corporate    made  under  section  7,
with power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of the same.

5

10

14. The  moneys  and  property  of  the  body  corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion  of  the  objects  of  the  body  corporate  and  no
portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  transferred  directly  or
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit to the members
of the body corporate.

Application
of  money
and  property

15.

(1)  The  seal  of  the  body  corporate  shall  not  be
affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence
of two members of the Board who shall sign their names to
the  instrument  in  token  of  their  presence  and  such  signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Body
corporate

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.

16.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  body  corporate
there  remains  after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be  distributed  among  the  members  of  the  body  corporate,
but  shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  some  other  institution
having objects similar to those of the body corporate, and
which is  by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its  members.

(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at  a  general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

15

20

25

30

Samadhi Health Service, Environment,
Agricultural, Cultural and Sport Centre  (Incorporation)

11

17. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect  the  rights  of  the  Republic  or  of  anybody  politic  or
Corporate.

5

18.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

12
Samadhi Health Service, Environment,
Agricultural, Cultural and Sport Centre  (Incorporation)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

