PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————

RUHUNU   AWAKENING  ORGANIZATION
(INCORPORATION)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Ruhunu Awakening Organization

————————

Presented by the  Hon. Buddhika Pathirana, M. P.
for Matara District on 24th of February, 2021

(Published in the Gazette on February 16, 2021)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

[Bill No. 32]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 17.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Ruhunu  Awakening  Organization
(Incorporation)

1

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE RUHUNU AWAKENING ORGANIZATION

WHEREAS  an  organization  called  and  known  as  the
“Ruhunu  Awakening”  Organization  has  heretofore  been
created  for  the  purpose  of  effectually  carrying  out  and
transacting all objects and matters connected  with the said
Organization according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Organization  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to
grant  the  application:

Be it herefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Ruhunu  Awakening

Short  title

Organization (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2021.

2. From  and  after  the  date  of  commencement  of  this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Ruhunu Awakening” Organization (hereinafter referred to
as  the  “Organization”)  or  shall  hereafter  be  admitted  as
members  of  the  Corporation  hereby  constituted,  shall  be  a
body  corporate  with  perpetual  succession,  under  the  name
and  style  of  the  “Ruhunu  Awakening”  Organization
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Corporation”)  and  by  that
name  may  sue  and  be  sued  and  shall  have  full  power  and
authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the same
at its pleasure.

Incorporation
of  the
Ruhunu
Awakening
Organization

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

(a) to grant aid and support physically and qualitatively
to relevant institutions in order to facilitate school
children and university students to carry out their
studies  effectively;

5

10

15

20

25

30

2

Ruhunu  Awakening  Organization
(Incorporation)

(b) to identify inborn talents of students and youths at
the rural, district and provincial levels in the fields
of  sports,  literary  and  arts  and  to  inspire  them  to
harness  their  inborn  talents  through  the  provision
of  the  required  infrastructure  facilities  for  this
purpose;

(c) to  provide  for  displaying  and  evalating  skills  of
school children and university students and to confer
awards  and  certificates  to  children  with  talents  in
order to promote their cultural skills;

(d) to  implement  special  training  programmes  which
will enable the creation of a young generation who
appreciate and practice values, norms and ethics;

(e) to implement practical programmes for promoting
physical capabilities of student population through
sanitation and health programmes and sports cum
physical exercise programmes;

(f) to  organize  and  operate  educational  tours,
shramadana campaigns and workshops in order to
inculate  feelings  on  Sri  Lankan  heritage,
environment, wildlife, population and patriotism;

(g) to  provide  assistance  and  to  encourage  forming

scouts groups and platoons in schools;

(h) to  extend  support  to  services  rendered  by  senior
citizens  organizations  and  to  encourage  such
organizations;

(i) to  encourage  farmers  engaged  in  traditional  and
export agricultural activities and to carry out various
awareness programmes for them;

(j) to  take  action  to  provide  required  assistance  and
support and training to unemployed youths in order
to  enable  them  to  engage  in  self  employment
activites;

5

10

15

20

25

30

Ruhunu  Awakening  Organization
(Incorporation)

3

(k) to  work  in  collaboration  with  local  and  foreign
organizations  with  objectives  similar  to  those  of
the  Corporation;

(l) to  offer  guidance  for  the  conduct  of  academic
lectures,  seminars,  conferences  relevant  to  the
intellectual  development  of  the  people  and  to
organize  exhibitions,  educational  and  propaganda
activities for this purpose;

(m) to do all such other acts, matters and things as are
incidental  or  conductive  to  the  attainment  of  the
objectives of the Corporation.

5

10

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other

written law, the Corporation shall have the power to—

Powers  of  the
Corporation

(a) open, operate and close bank accounts;

15

(b) borrow or raise money with or without security and

to receive or collect grants and donations;

(c)

invest any funds of the Corporation which are not
immediately  required  for  the  purpose  of  the
Corporation  in  a  way  that  may  be  determined  by
the Committee of Management;

(d) purchase,  acquire,  give  on  lease  or  hire,  sell  or
otherwise  obtain  any  movable  or  immovable
property which may be required for the purpose of
the  Corporation  and  which  may  lawfully  be
acquired  for  those  purposes  and  to  deal  with  or
dispose of the same, as it may deem expedient with
a view to promoting the objects of the Corporation;

(e)

appoint,  employ  and  dismiss  the  employees
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation  and  pay  them  such  remuneration  as
may be determined by the Corporation;

20

25

30

4

(f)

Ruhunu  Awakening  Organization
(Incorporation)

enter into, perform or carry out, whether directly
or through any officer or agent authorized in that
behalf  by  the  Corporation,  all  such  contracts  or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objects or the exercise of the powers of the
Corporation;  and

(g)

appoint  advisory  councils,  committees  or  sub
committees as and when necessary to carry out any
functions of the Corporation as may be determined
by the Committee of Management:

Provided that the Corporation shall obtain prior
written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the  subject  of  Finance  in  respect  of  all  foreign
grants, gifts or donations.

5.

(1) The management of the affairs of the Corporation
shall  be  subject  to  the  rules  of  the  Corporation,  be
administered  by  Committee  of  Management  consisting  of
not more than six office bearers inclusive of the Chairman /
Managing Director, Secretary, Treasurer and such number
of members as may be provided or in rules and elected in
accordance therewith.

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the
Corporation

(2) No act or proceeding of the Committee of Management
shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence
of a vacancy among its members or any defect on the election
or nomination of  a member thereof.

(3) The first Committee of Management shall consist of
the members of the Committee of Management holding office
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act  and  shall  continue  to  hold  office  until  a  new
Committee  of  Management  is  elected  in  accordance  with
the rules made under section 6 of this Act.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Ruhunu  Awakening  Organization
(Incorporation)

5

6.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting by a majority of not less than
two-thirds  of  the  members  present  to  make  rules  not
inconsistent  with  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  or  any  other
written law, on all or any of the following matters:—

Rules  of  the
Corporation

(a) the  classification  of  members  and  the  admission,

withdrawal or expulsion of members;

(b) the  election  of  the  office-bearers,  the  registration
from, vacation of or removal from office of office-
bearers and their powers, conduct and duties;

(c) the  election  of  the  members  of  the  Committee  of
Management  and  its  powers,  duties  and  conduct
and the terms of office of members of the Committee
of Management;

(d) the  powers,  duties,  functions  and  conduct  of  the
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation;

(e) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and  holding  of  meetings  of  the  Committee  of
Management, the times, places, notices and agenda
of  such  meetings,  the  quorum  thereof  and  the
conduct of business thereat;

(f) the administration and management of the porperty
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds, and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and

5

10

15

20

25

(g) the management of the affairs of the Corporation,

and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered,  added  or  rescinded  at  a  like  meeting  and  in  like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

30

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to

the rules of the Corporation.

6

Ruhunu  Awakening  Organization
(Incorporation)

7. The Secretary of the Committee of Management shall
keep  and  maintain  a  register  containing  the  names  of  the
members of the Corporation.

8. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to to acquire and hold  any
property both movable and immovable, which may become
vested in it by virtue of any purchase, gift, grant, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to
the rules of the Corporation made under section 6, with full
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of the same.

Register  of
the  Members
of  the
Corporation

Corporation
may  hold
movable  and
immovable,
property

9.

(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of  gifts,
testamentary  dispositions,  grants,  donations,  contributions
or fees on behalf of the Corporation shall be deposited to the
credit of the Fund of the Corporation in one or more banks as
the Committee of Management  may  determine.

Fund  of  the
Corporation

5

10

15

20

(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund or
a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, development
or improvement of the property of the Corporation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the  Corporation  in
the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties
and functions under this Act.

25

(4)  The  financial  year  of  the  Corporation  shall  be  the

calender year.

30

10. All debts and liabilities of the Organization on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall
be  paid  and  discharged  by  the  Corporation  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to,  subscriptions  and
contributions payable to the Organization on that day shall
be paid to the Corporation for the purpose of the Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Organization

Ruhunu  Awakening  Organization
(Incorporation)

7

11. No  member  of  the  Corporation  shall  for  purpose
of  discharging  the  debts  and  liabilities  of  the  Corporation
or for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding  the  amount  due  from  such  member  as
membership fees.

5

Limitation  of
liability  of
members

12.

(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.

Accounts  and
Audit

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by

10

a qualified auditor.

(3) In  this section, “qualified auditor” means —

(a)

(b)

an  individual  who,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or  of  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant,  issued  by    the  Council  of  such
institute;  or

a  firm  of  Accountants  each  of  the  resident
partners  of  which,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or  of  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  of  practice  as  an
Accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
institute.

13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any  instrument  whatsoever  except  in  the  presence  of  the
President  and  the  Secretary  or  two  other  members  of  the
Corporation  as  may  be  decided  by  the  committee  of
Management who shall sign their names to the  instrument
in  token  of  their  presence  and  such  signing  shall  be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation

15

20

25

30

8

Ruhunu  Awakening  Organization
(Incorporation)

14.

If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Corporation,  there
remains any property whatsoever, after the satisfaction of all
debts  and  liabilities,  such  property  shall  not  be  distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given or
transferred to some other institution having objects  similar
to those of the Corporation, and which, is  or are by its rules
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such institution or institutions may be
determined by the members of the Committee of Management
on or before the dissolution of the Corporation.

5

10

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

15. Nothing  contained  in  this  Act    shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic, or
corporate or of any other person except such as are mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.

Savings  of
the  rights  of
the  Republic
and  others

15

16.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

Ruhunu  Awakening  Organization
(Incorporation)

9

Department  of  Government  Printing

