PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

CIVIL  PROCEDURE  CODE

(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 43 OF 2024

[Certified on 02nd of August, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 02, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs.30.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

1

[Certified on 02nd of August, 2024]

L.D.-O. 72/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CIVIL PROCEDURE CODE (CHAPTER 101)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Civil  Procedure  Code

Short  title

(Amendment) Act, No. 43 of 2024.

2. Section 5 of the Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101)
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately after the definition
of the expression “decree”, of the following new definition:-

Amendment  of
section  5  of
Chapter  101

““electronic” shall have the same meaning assigned to
it by the Electronic Transactions Act, No.19 of
2006;”.

3. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the repeal of paragraph (a) thereof, and the substitution
therefor of the following new paragraph: -

Amendment  of
section  9  of  the
principal
enactment

“(a) a party plaintiff or a party defendant resides; or”.

4. Section 27 of the principal enactment is hereby amended

as follows: -

(1) in subsection (1) thereof-

Amendment  of
section  27  of  the
principal
enactment

(a) in paragraph (b) by the substitution, for the
words  “party  whom  he  represents;  and”,  of
the words “party whom he represents;”; and

(b) by the repeal of paragraph (c) thereof, and the
substitution  therefor  of  the  following  new
paragraphs: -

2

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

“(c) include  an  electronic  mail  address  and  a
mobile phone number to which service of any
process, notice or any other legal documents
may also be served on a registered attorney;

(d) contain  a  memorandum  substantially  in  the
Form  No.  16A  of  the  First  Schedule  in
duplicate  setting  out  the  address,  mobile
phone  number  and  the  electronic  mail
address, if any, of such party which shall be
considered  as  the  registered  address,  the
registered  mobile  phone  number  and  the
registered  electronic  mail  address,
respectively  of  such  party.  The  registered
attorney shall with such memorandum tender
to the Registrar stamps to the value required
to  cover  cost  of  service  of  such  notices  or
other legal document by registered post and
the registered attorney shall bear the cost of
courier service or service through electronic
means;”;

(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) of

the following new subsection:-

“(2A) (a) Where a party is represented by a
registered  attorney,  such  attorney  shall  in  the
appointment,  state  the  national  identity  card
number,  passport  number  or  any  other  mode  of
identification, as the case may be, of the party and
shall also make an endorsement thereon certifying
the  identity  of  such  party.  Where  the  party  is  a
company or a body corporate the appointment shall
be made under the seal of such company or a body
corporate as the case may be.

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

3

(b) In the event a person who resides outside
Sri Lanka is unable to meet his registered attorney
to sign the appointment under subsection (1), such
appointment shall be signed in the presence of any
of the following authorized persons who shall certify
the identity of such person: -

(i)

(ii)

an Attorney-at-Law, a solicitor, a lawyer or
a  Notary  of  the  country  where  such  party
resides; or

the High Commissioner, the Ambassador, a
diplomatic officer or a consular officer of
the Sri Lankan High Commission, Embassy
or Consular Office in the country in which
such party resides.

(c) In the case of any delay or any difficulty
to produce the original of the appointment within
the  specified  time,  a  copy  of  the  original  in
electronic form may be produced in court subject
to production of the original of such appointment
within a reasonable time as the court may direct.”.

5.  Section  55  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section, and
the substitution therefor of the following subsections: -

Amendment  of
section  55  of  the
principal
enactment

“(2)(a) Every party to an action, not appearing by a
registered attorney, shall on or before the date specified
in the summons deliver to the Registrar a memorandum
substantially in the Form No. 16A in the First Schedule
in  duplicate  setting  out  the  address,  mobile  phone
number and the electronic mail address if any, which
shall  be  considered  as  the  registered  address,  the

4

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

registered  mobile  phone  number  and  the  registered
electronic mail address respectively of such party for
the service of the notices or any other legal document
required to be served on such party under the provisions
of  this  Code  unless  otherwise  provided.  Every  party
shall inform the Registrar forthwith of any change in
the address, the mobile phone number or the electronic
mail address.

(b) Every party shall with such memorandum tender
to the Registrar stamps to the value required to cover
cost of service of such notices or other legal document
by  registered  post.  He  shall  bear  the  cost  of  courier
service or service through electronic means.

(3)  Where a party appears by a registered attorney,
the  address,  the  mobile  phone  number  and  the
electronic  mail  address  of  the  registered  attorney
contained in his appointment under section 27 shall be
deemed  to  be  the  registered  address,  the  registered
mobile phone number and the registered electronic mail
address  of  such  Attorney-at-Law  so  long  as  the
appointment is in force.

(4) Any notice or other legal document required to
be  served  on  any  party  shall  be  deemed  sufficient
service if served by registered post or courier service or
through electronic means-

(i) on such party on the registered address, the
registered  mobile  phone  number  or  the
registered  electronic  mail  address  of  such
party; or

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

5

(ii) on  such  registered  attorney,  where  a  party
appears  by  a  registered  attorney  and  such
appointment  is  in  force,  on  the  registered
address, the registered mobile phone number
and the registered electronic mail address of
such registered attorney.

(5)  The  Registrar  shall  file  one  copy  of  the
memorandum  substantially  in  the  Form  No.  16A
furnished to him as part of the record of the case and
keep and maintain the other copy by way of a separate
ledger.”.

6. Section 59 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed

and the following section is substituted therefor: -

Replacement  of
section  59  of  the
principal
enactment

“Service  of
summons

59.  (1)  (a)  Summons  shall  ordinarily  be
served by the process server, registered post or
courier service.

(b) Where the plaintiff wishes summons may
also  be  served  through  electronic  mail,  all
necessary documents shall be submitted by the
plaintiff to the relevant court in electronic form.

(2)  In  the  case  of  a  company  or  a  body
corporate  summons  may  be  delivered  by  the
process server, registered post, courier service
or electronic mail if any to the registered office
or  to  the  principal  place  of  business  of  such
company or body corporate.

(3) Where the defendant is a public officer,
the  court  may  send  summons  by  the  process
server, registered post or courier service to the

6

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

head of the department in which the defendant
is employed, and it shall be the duty of such
head of department to cause the summons to
be served personally on the defendant.

(4) Where the court is prima facie satisfied
that  the  defendant  is  in  the  employment  of
another  person,  the  court  may  send  the
summons by the process server, registered post
or courier service to the employer at his place
of business or, where the employer is a company
or a body corporate, to any secretary, manager
or other like officer of the company or the body
corporate,  and  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  such
employer or officer, as the case may be, to cause
the  summons  to  be  served  personally  on  the
defendant.

(5) Where a defendant appears in court in
person  on  summons  being  served  on  him  in
the manner referred to above, he shall produce
the  national  identity  card  or  passport  or  any
other mode of identification as the court may
deem fit.

(6) In this section-

“ head of department ”-

(a) when  used  with  reference  to  a
member  of  any  unit  of  the  Sri
Lanka Army, Navy or Air Force,
means the Commanding Officer
of that unit;

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

7

(b) when  used  with  reference  to  a
person  employed  in  a  local
authority,  where  the  local
authority 
is  a  Municipal
Council,  means  the  Municipal
Commissioner  of  that  Council
and where the local authority is
an  Urban  Council  or  a
Pradeshiya  Sabha,  means  the
Chairman or the Secretary of that
Council or Sabha;

(c) when used with reference to any
other  public  officer  means  the
head  of  the  department  of
Government  in  which  such
person is employed; and

“national  identity  card”  means  the
identity card issued to such person
under  the  Registration  of  Persons
Act, No. 32 of 1968.”.

  7.  Section  60  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

Replacement  of
section  60  of  the
principal
enactment

“Service  by
the  process
server

60. (1) (a) Where the summons are served
by  the  process  server,  the  summons  shall  be
accompanied by a precept in the Form No. 17
of the First Schedule.

(b)  (i)  The  process  server  may,  upon  the
summons  being  served  on  the  defendant,
obtain the signature or the thumb impression
of  such  defendant  on  the  precept  as
acknowledgment of the service of summons.

8

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

(ii)  The  process  server  shall  return  the
precept  to  the  court,  together  with  a  report
setting out the manner in which the summons
was  served  on  the  defendant  containing
particulars  relating  to  the  identity  of  the
person, date, time and place the summons were
served.  The  report  shall  also  state  whether
defendant,  placed  or  refused  to  place  his
signature or thumb impression, on the precept
as acknowledgment of the service of summons.

(iii) The refusal by any defendant to place
the signature or thumb impression, as the case
may be, on the precept shall not be considered
as an invalidation of the service of summons.

(2) If the service referred to in the preceding
provisions  of  this  section  cannot  by  the
exercise of due diligence be effected, the court
may  having  obtained  an  affidavit  from  the
plaintiff  stating  that  to  the  best  of  his
knowledge  the  defendant  resides  in  the
captioned  address  and  not  living  outside  Sri
Lanka,  order  the  process  server  to  affix  the
summons at some conspicuous part of the house
in which the defendant ordinarily resides or in
the case of a company or a body corporate, at
the  registered  office  or  at  the  usual  place  of
business or office of such company or a body
corporate and in every such case the summons
shall be deemed to have been duly served on
the  defendant.

(3)  The  Court  may  authorise  the  process
server to serve the summons outside the local
limits of the court as directed by the court.

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

9

(4) Where it is reported by the process server
that  the  summons  could  not  be  affected
personally on the defendant on the last known
address given by the plaintiff and the plaintiff
informs  Court  by  filling  affidavit  that  the
plaintiff  is  unaware  of  the  place  where  the
defendant  resides,  the  court  upon  being
satisfied on the contents of such affidavit, order
that  the  summons  be  served  by  way  of
publication  in  newspapers  in  all  three
languages as the court may in each case direct.

(5) For the purpose of this chapter-

“process server” means a fiscal, a
deputy  fiscal,  an  officer
authorized  by  the  Judge  or
Registrar  of  the  court  to  serve
documents  of  the  court  within
the  local  limits  or  outside  the
local  limits  of  the  court  as
directed  by  the  court,  or  the
Grama Niladhari within whose
division the defendant resides.”.

  8.  Section  61  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

“Proof  of
service

61.  When summons are served by-

Replacement  of
section  61  of  the
principal
enactment

(a) registered post or courier service, the
registered post article receipt or proof
of delivery of courier service;

(b) electronic  mail,  the  proof  of  sending
of the electronic mail by the Registrar
and filed as part of the case record;

10

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

(c) publication  in  newspapers,  copies  of

such publications; or

(d) in  any  other  manner,  an  affidavit  of

such service,

shall  be  sufficient  evidence  of  the  service  of
the summons and of the date of such service,
and  shall  be  admissible  in  evidence  and  the
statements contained therein shall be deemed
to  be  correct  unless  and  until  the  contrary  is
proved.”.

Replacement  of
section  66  of  the
principal
enactment

9. Section 66 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed

and the following section is substituted therefor: -

Replacement  of
section  68  of  the
principal
enactment

“Service  on
agent  or
affixing  on
immovable
property

66.  In  an  action  to  obtain  relief  or
compensation  for  wrong  in  respect  of  an
immovable  property  or  connected  thereto,  if
the service cannot be made on the defendant
in person, it may be made on any agent of the
defendant in charge of the property and in cases
where  such  agent  cannot  be  found  the  court
may direct that the summons shall be affixed
at some conspicuous part of such property.”.

  10.  Section  68  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

“Service  on
defendant    in
jail

68.  (1)  If  the  defendant  be  in  jail,  the
summons  shall  be  delivered  by  the  process
server to the officer in charge of the jail in which
the  defendant  is  confined,  and  such  officer
shall  cause  the  summons  to  be  served
personally  on  the  defendant  and  obtain  an
acknowledgement of receipt of the summons
by the defendant.

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

11

(2) The precept shall be returned through
the process server to the court from which it is
issued, with a statement of the service endorsed
thereon, and signed by the officer in charge of
the  jail.

(3) Where any defendant is in prison on
the  summons  returnable  date  the  officer  in
charge  of  the  prison  shall  produce  the
defendant to the Court .”.

11.  Section  70  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended by the substitution for the words and figures “other
requirements of section 55.”, of the words and figures “other
requirements of section 55.  Such service can be effected by
courier service or by any legal firm authorised by the laws of
such country where the defendant resides and the proof of
personal  service  of  summons  shall  be  submitted  to  the
court.”.

Amendment  of
section  70  of  the
principal
enactment

12.  The  following  new  chapter  is  hereby  inserted
immediately after Chapter VIII of the principal enactment
and shall have effect as Chapter VIIIA of that enactment:-

Insertion  of  new
Chapter  VIIIA  in
the  principal
enactment

“CHAPTER VIIIA
SERVICE OF ORDERS

Communication
of  Orders

71A.  The  Court  may,  in  addition  to  the
service  of  documents,  direct  the  Registrar  to
communicate any order of court including an
enjoining  order,  an  injunction,  an  interim
injunction, a sequestration order and an interim
order  to  the  parties  concerned  by  way  of
electronic or telephone devices.”.

12

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

Amendment  of
section  86  of  the
principal
enactment

13.  Section  86  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following: -

“(2)  Where,

(a) at anytime after the case is fixed for ex-parte
trial against the defendant for default; or

(b) any  time  after  the  decree  is  entered  against
him for default but without the service of the
decree on him; or

(c) within  fourteen  days  of  the  service  of  the
decree entered against him for default,

the  defendant,  with  notice  to  the  plaintiff  makes
application to and thereafter satisfies court, that he did
not  receive  the  summons  or  that  he  had  reasonable
grounds for such default, the court shall set aside the
order fixing the case for ex-parte trial, the judgement
and decree as the case may be and permit the defendant
to proceed with his defence as from the stage of default
upon such terms as to costs or otherwise as to the court
shall deem fit.”.

Amendment  of
section  653  of
the  principal
enactment

14.    Section  653  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended by the substitution, for the words “one thousand
five hundred rupees”, of the words “two million rupees.”.

Amendment  to
First  Schedule  to
the  principal
enactment

15.  The  First  Schedule  to  the  principal  enactment  is

hereby amended as follows: -

(1) by  the  repeal  of  Form  No.  7  thereof,  and  the
substitution therefor of the following form:-

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

13

  “No.  7

  [Section  27]

FORM  OF  APPOINTMENT  OF  A  REGISTERED

ATTORNEY

Know 

all  men 

by 

these 

presents 

that 

I/

we………………………………………,  holder  of  National

Identity  card  bearing  no……………………………………..

………………………………………………………………………………….

have  nominated,  constituted  and  appointed,  and  do  hereby

nominate 

constitute 

and 

appoint

……….…………………………………Attorney-at-Law  to

be 

my/our 

registered 

Attorney 

and 

………………………………….. 

and 

for

in

………………………………………………  name  and

behalf  before  the  ………………………………………….

to  appear  and  therein  to  (sue  or  defend,  as  the  case  may  be,

showing  what  the  action  is)

And  to  receive  and  to  take  all  moneys  that  may  be  paid  to

him  by  the  said  ……………………  in  the  said  action,  and

to  move  for  and  obtain  in  his  name  any  order  or  orders

from  the  said  Court  for  any  payments  of  any  sum  or  sums

of  money  that  may  be  deposited  therein  in  respect  of

……………………………………,  and  to  give  all  necessary

receipts,  releases  and  discharges  therefor.  And  if  need  be,

to  refer  the  case  to  the  award  and  decision  of  arbitrators

and  to  name  an  arbitrator  for  ………………………,  and

for  that  purpose  to  sign  any  motion,  submission,  or  bond;

or,  if  necessary  to  allow  and  consent  to  a  judgement  being

entered  against  ……………………………..  as 

to

…………………………….  said  Attorney-at-Law  shall

appear  fit  and  proper;  and  against  any  judgment,  order,

sentence,  or  decree  interlocutory  or  final  of  the  said  Court

to  appeal  to  the  High  Court,  Court  of  Appeal  or  Supreme

Court;  and  every  bond  or  recognizance  whatsoever

14

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

necessary  in  the  course  of  proceedings  for  the  prosecution

of  such  appeal  for  and  in  …………………………  name

and  as  ………………………………………  act  to  sign,  and

upon 

any 

judgement 

or 

order 

of 

the 

said

……………………………  Court  to  proceed  to  execution

against 

the  person  and  property  of 

the 

said

………………………

And  ………………………  do  further  authorize  and

empower  ………………………..  said  Attorney-at-Law,  to

take  and  use  all  lawful  ways  and  means,  and  to  do  and

perform all such acts, matters and things as may be necessary

in  and  about  the  premises  which  …………………  being

personally  present  might  or  could  lawfully  do,  and,  if

necessary,  one  or  more  Attorney  or  Attorneys-at-Law  or

counsel,  to  appoint,  and  again  at  pleasure  such  appointment

to  revoke,  and  ………………….  further  promise  and  agree

to  release  all  kinds  of  irregularities,  and  to  ratify,  confirm,

and  allow  all  and  whatsoever  the  said  Attorney-at-Law  or

his  substitute  or  substitutes,  or  the  said  counsel,  shall  do

herein.

.………………………

Signature/s

Witness 

…………………………. 

hand 

………………………on 

this  …………….day 

at

of

………………20…

I  certify  that  I  am  satisfied  with  the  identity  of  the  said

………….………………..(name/s)  according 

to 

the

National  Identity  Card/Passport/  Senior  Citizen  Identity

Card/Driving 

Licence 

bearing 

number

……………………………….  and  he/she/they  signed  before

me  on  .................................................

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

15

………………………….…………
Signature  of  the  registered  Attorney/

Attorney-at-Law/Solicitor/Notary/

Ambassador/High  Commissioner/

Diplomatic  Officer/Consular  Officer.

(Seal)

……………………………….
Signature  of  the  registered

Attorney  (Seal).”;

Address:

Phone  numbers:  Office  :

         Mobile :

Electronic  mail  Address:

Fax  Number:

(2) by  the  repeal  of  Form  No.  16A  thereof,  and  the
substitution therefor of the following form :-

               “No. 16A                         [Sections 27 and 55]

MEMORANDUM  OF  REGISTERED  ADDRESS  /

REGISTERED  MOBILE  PHONE  NUMBER  /

REGISTERED  ELECTRONIC  MAIL  ADDRESS

In  the  Commercial  High  Court  /

District  Court  /

Primary  Court  of  …………………

Case  No. :

I,…………………………………………….(the  Plaintiff/

Defendant/Petitioner/Respondent/Party  seeking  to  be  added/

substituted)  hereby  furnish  my  address/  mobile  phone

number/ electronic mail address for the service of the notices

and  all  other  legal  documents  required  to  be  served  on  me

under  this  Code.

16

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

I  undertake  to  inform  the  Registrar  of  any  change  of  the

registered  address/registered  mobile  phone  number/

registered  electronic  mail  address  forthwith  by  submitting

another  memorandum  in  the  same  form.

Address:

Mobile  Phone  Number:

Electronic  mail  Address:

Fax  Number:

……………………..
Signature

Plaintiff/Defendant/Petitioner/  Respondent/

Party  Seeking  to  be  added/  substituted.”;

(3) by  the  repeal  of  Form  No.  17  thereof,  and  the
substitution therefor of the following form:-

                   “No. 17                               [Sections 60, 71A]

FORM  OF  PRECEPT  TO  PROCESS  SERVER  TO  SERVE

SUMMONS  OR  ORDERS

To  the  Fiscal  /  Authorized  Officer  /  Grama  Niladhari  of  the

……………………………….

Court/Division  of  ………………………………………..

Serve  forthwith  the  summons  in  the  above-named  action,

which,  with  duplicates,  is  herewith  transmitted  to  you,  upon

each  of  the  persons  to  whom  it  is  directed,  and  leave  with

or  tender  to  each  such  person  a  duplicate  summons  and  one

of  the  copies  of  (or  concise  statements  presented  with)  the

plaint,  which  accompany  the  summons.  And  certify  to  this

Court  on  or  before  the  ………….  day  of  …………..20……,

in  what  manner  you  have  executed  this  precept,  returning

the  summons  attached  to  your  certificate  as  an  exhibit.

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

17

By  order  of  Court,

(Signed)  ………….,

Registrar.

The……..day  of  ……………20...”.

16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

18

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)
Act, No. 43 of 2024

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING
English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

