PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

DEDIGAMA  SRI  MAITHRI  PRAGNARTHA
BOUDDHA  EDUCATIONAL  DAHAM
SABHAWA  (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  No.  35  OF  2024

[Certified on 19th of  June, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 20, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 35 of 2024

1

[Certified on 19th of June, 2024]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 2/2021

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DEDIGAMA SRI MAITHRI
PRAGNARTHA BOUDDHA EDUCATIONAL DAHAM SABHAWA

WHEREAS  a  Foundation  called  and  known  as  the
“Dedigama  Sri  Maithri  Pragnartha  Bouddha  Educational
Daham  Sabhawa”  has  heretofore  been  established  in
Sri  Lanka  for  the  purpose  of  effectually  carrying  out  its
objects and transacting all matters connected with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to
grant  the  said  application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the Dedigama Sri Maithri
Pragnartha  Bouddha  Educational  Daham  Sabhawa
(Incorporation) Act, No. 35 of 2024.

Short  title

2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Dedigama  Sri  Maithri  Pragnartha  Bouddha  Educational
Daham Sabhawa (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”)
and    shall  hereafter  be  admitted  as  members  of  the  body
corporate hereby constituted shall have perpetual succession
under  the  name  and  style  of  the  “Dedigama  Sri  Maithri
Pragnartha  Bouddha  Educational  Daham  Sabhawa”
(hereinafter referred to as the “body corporate”), and by that
name may sue and be sued with full power and authority to
have,  and  use  a  common  seal  and  to  alter  the  same  at  its
pleasure.

Incorporation
of  the
Dedigama  Sri
Maithri
Pragnartha
Bouddha
Educational
Daham
Sabhawa

2

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 35 of 2024

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Service Organization within the meaning and for the
purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Services  Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions  of  that  Act  shall  apply  to  and  in  relation  to  the
management of the affairs of the body corporate.

General  objects
of  the  body
corporate

3.   Subject to the provisions of any other written law the
general objects for which the body corporate is constituted
are hereby declared to be–

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

to  promote  and  guide  the  Buddhist  adherence  to
practice “prathipathi pooja” to reach Nibbana;

to  publish  books  relating  to  Buddhism  for  the
enhancement  and  development  of  religious
knowledge on Seela, Samadhi and Pragnya of the
Buddhist  adherence;

to  safeguard  and  practice  the  “Kathikavatha”  of
Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha thero;

to  take  steps  to  enhance  the  knowledge  of  newly
ordained monks and lay Buddhists attached to the
Dedigama  Sri  Maithri  Pragnartha  Bouddha
Educational Daham Sabhawa by teaching Damma
through  the  guidance  of  the  adult  monks  who
possess and in-depth uderstanding of the Buddhist
doctrine  and  discipline;

to  distribute  the  four  requisites  received  by  the
Buddhist  Monks  attached  to  the  Sri  Sambodhi
Aranya Senasanas belonging to the Dedigama Sri
Maithri  Pragnartha  Bouddha  Educational  Daham
Sabhawa  for  the  use  of  other  Buddhist  monks
attached  to  the  Sri  Maithri  Pragnartha  Bouddha
Educational Daham Sabhawa in order to estabish
equality;

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 35 of 2024

3

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

(j)

to facilitate activities ralating to Buddhism for the
usage of Bhikku, Bhikkuni, Upasaka and Upasika
in  order  to  achieve  the  goals  of  Sri  Maithri
Pragnartha Bouddha Educational Daham Sabhawa;

to work in compliance with the constitution of the
Dedigama  Sri  Maithri  Pragnartha  Bouddha
Educational Daham Sabhawa;

to conduct sil and meditation programmes on Poya
days  and  conduct  Damma  discussions  on  every
week to guide Buddhist adherence to reach Nibbana
and  to  abstain  from  sinful  acts  by  giving
prominence to Principles of Buddhism;

to  take  steps  to  protect  the  books,  videos  and
Damma speeches ralating to the religious activities
of  Venerable  Dedigama  Sri  Maithri  Pragnartha
thero;  and

to  set  up  new  Sri  Smabodhi  Aranya  Senasana  in
areas  where  groups  of  Buddhist  adherence  who
practice Buddhism live and who wish to contribute
for such Sri Sambodhi Aranya Senasana.

4. The  objects  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  carried
out subject to necessary approvals under applicable written
laws in such manner so as not to create any conflict between
the work of the body corporate and any work being carried
out simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of  the
Government or of any Provincial Council, Local Authority
or public Corporation.

Body  corporate
to  ensure  no
conflict  with  the
work  of  Ministry
or  Department  of
the  Government
or  Provincial
Council,  etc.

Management  of
the  affairs  of  the
body  corporate

4

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 35 of 2024

5.  (1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  any  other
written  law  and  the  rules  made  under  section  7,  the
management  and  administration  of  the  affairs  of  the  body
corporate shall be carried out by a Committee of Management
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Committee”)  consisting  of
such  number  of  office  bearers  as  may  be  specified  by  the
rules made under  section 7.

(2) (a) The members of the Committee of Management of
the  Foundation  holding  office  on  the  day  immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall, subject
to the rules made under paragraph (b), function as an Interim
Committee of the body corporate until the first Committee is
appointed or elected within the period specified in paragraph
(d)  and  in  the  manner  provided  for  by  rules  made  under
section 7.

(b)    Subject  to  the  provisions  of  section  7,  the  Interim
Committee  of  the  body  corporate  shall  have  the  power  to
make rules for the interim administration of the body corporate
and for election or appointment of the members of the first
Committee of the body corporate not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law:

Provided that, the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) of
section  7  shall  mutatis  mutandis  apply  to  the  rules  made
under subsection (2).

(c)  Any decision of the Interim Committee shall be taken

by the majority of its members present at such meeting.

(d)  The first Committee of the body corporate shall be
appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 35 of 2024

5

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Committee including the
patrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a period
of three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisor
shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapse
of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Committee shall having regard to the rules of the
body corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term of
office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute the acts and matters as are necessary or
desirable for the promotion or attainment of the objects of
the  body  corporate  or  any  one  of  them,  including  the
following power–

(a)

(b)

to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwise
obtain  lands  or  buildings  which  may  be  required
for the purposes of the body corporate and to deal
with or dispose of the same as determined by the
Committee with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;

to  enter  into  and  perform  or  carry  out,  whether
directly or through any officer or agent authorized
in  that  behalf  by  the  body  corporate,  all  such
contracts or agreements as may be necessary for the
attainment of the objects or the exercise of the powers
of the body corporate;

Powers  of  the
body  corporate

6

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 35 of 2024

(c)

to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind:

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

Provided  that,  the  Committee  shall  obtain  the
prior written approval of the Department of External
Resources in respect of all foreign grants, gifts or
donations made to the body corporate;

to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts
in any bank;

to  invest  any  funds  that  are  not  immediately
required for the purposes of the body corporate, in
such manner as the Committee may determine;

to  undertake,  accept,  execute,  perform  and
administer any lawful trust having objects similar
to  the  body  corporate  or  any  real  or  personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;

to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of  officers  and  other  employees  of  the  body
corporate  and  exercise  disciplinary  control  over
them and to pay them such salaries, allowances and
gratuities,  as  may  be  determined  by  the  body
corporate;

(h)

to organize, lectures, seminars and conferences with
a  view  to  promoting  the  objects  of  the  body
corporate;

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 35 of 2024

7

(i)

(j)

(k)

to  liaise  and  co-ordinate  with  other  local  and
foreign  institutions  having  similar  objects  to  that
of the body corporate;

to  train  personnel  in  Sri  Lanka  or  abroad  with  a
view to promoting the objects of the body corporate
for the purposes of the body corporate; and

to  do  all  other  acts  and  things  authorized  by  this
Act for the achievement of the objects of the body
corporate.

7.

(1)  It  shall  be  lawful  for  the  body  corporate,  from
time to time, at any general meeting of the body corporate
and by a majority  of not less than two-thirds of the members
present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—

Rules  of  the
body  corporate

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by the members;

the election of office bearers of the Committee or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;

the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions  and  duties  of  various  officers  and
employees of the body corporate;

the  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  summoning
and  holding  of  meetings  of  the  Committee  or
notices and agenda of such meetings, the quorum
and the conduct of business thereat;

8

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 35 of 2024

(e)

(f)

(g)

the  qualifications  and  disqualifications  to  be  a
member of the Committee and the body corporate;

the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate;

the procedure governing the manner of liaising and
coordinating  with  other  local  and  foriegn
institutions  having  objects  similar  to  that  of  the
body corporate; and 

(h) generally, the management of the affairs of the body
corporate  and  the  accomplishment  of  its’  objects
and dissolution of the body corporate.

(2)  Any  rule  made  by  the  body  corporate  may  be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like  meeting
and in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of
this  section.

(3)  The  rules  made  under  subsection  (1),  shall  be
published in the Gazette and shall come into effect on the
date thereof.

(4) Every rule made by the body corporate within three
months after its publication in the Gazette, be brought before
Parliament for approval. Any rule which is not so approved
shall  be  deemed  to  be  rescinded  as  from  the  date  of  such
disapproval,  but  without  prejudice  to  anything  previously
done  thereunder.

(5)  Notification  of  the  date  on  which  any  such  rule  is
deemed  to  be  rescinded  under  subsection  (4)  shall  be
published in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all times

be subject to the rules of the body corporate.

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 35 of 2024

9

8. The Committee shall maintain a register of members
in  which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members shall be inscribed.

Register  of
members

9.

(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

Fund  of  the
body  corporate

(2)  All  moneys  received  by  way  of  gifts,  bequests,
donations,  subscriptions,  contributions,  fees  or  grants  for
and on account of the body corporate shall be deposited in
one or more banks approved by the Committee to the credit
of  the  body  corporate  subject  to  the  provisions  of  section
6(c).

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums of
money as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by
the  body  corporate  in  the  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.

(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
Auditing

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually by a qualified auditor appointed by Auditor General
in terms of provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution and
be certified by such qualified Auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section “a qualified auditor”

means–

Annual  Report

10

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 35 of 2024

(a)

(b)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of  Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  of  any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or

a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as  an  Accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
Institute.

11.

(1)  The  Committee  shall  prepare  a  report  of  the
activities of the body corporate for each financial year and
submit  such  report  together  with  the  audited  statement  of
accounts and a list of all assets and liabilities of the body
corporate  certified  by  a  qualified  Auditor    referred  to  in
section 10 to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Buddhasasana and to the Registrar
of Voluntary Social Services Organizations appointed under
the Voluntary Social Services Organizations (Registration
and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration
of six months of the year succeeding the year to which such
report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreign
and local moneys received by the body corporate, the details
of  all  contracts  and  agreements  entered  into  by  the  body
corporate and the rules of the body corporate made under
section 7 during the financial year shall be attached to the
report referred to in subsection (1).

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 35 of 2024

11

12. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  body  corporate  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to  and  subscriptions  and
contributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall be
paid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

13. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall be able and capable in
law to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the body corporate for the purpose
of  this  Act  and  subject  to  the  rules  of  the  body  corporate
made under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

14. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law the moneys and property of the body corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion  of  the  objects  of  the  body  corporate  and  no
portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  transferred  directly  or
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwise
howsoever to the members of the body corporate.

Debts  due  by
and  payable  to
the  Foundation

Body  corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

Application  of
moneys  and
property

15.

(1)  The  Seal  of  the    body  corporate  shall  not  be
affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence
of two members of the Committee who shall sign their names
to the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the  body
corporate

(2) The Seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Committee as may be decided by
the Committee.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

12

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 35 of 2024

16.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  body  corporate
there  remains  after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be  distributed  among  the  members  of  the  body  corporate,
but  shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  any  other  appropriate
institution  having  objects  similar  to  those  of  the  body
corporate, and which is by the rules thereof,  prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its members.

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  subsection  (1)  the  appropriate
institution to which the property remains after the satisfaction
of all the debts and liabilities of the body corporate to be
given or transferred shall be determined by the members of
the  body  corporate  with  the  approval  of  the  Registrar  of
Voluntary Social Services Organizations appointed under the
Voluntary  Social  Services  Organizations  (Registration  and
Supervision)  Act,  No.  31  of  1980  immediately  before  the
dissolution at a general meeting by the majority of votes of
the members present.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic

17. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.

Interpretation

18.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires–

“Bank”  means  a  licensed  commercial  bank  under  the
provisions of Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;

“Kathikawatha  of  Dedigama  Sri  Maithri  Pragnartha
thero”  means  a  set  of  principals  and  disciplines
preached by Venerable Sri Maithri Pragnartha thero

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 35 of 2024

13

to  the  Buddhist  adherence  attached  to  the
Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha Educational Daham
Sabhawa in order to lead them for a disciplined life
with the ultimate goal of attaining the supreme bliss
of Nirvana, based on Dhamma preaching’s of Lord
Buddha;

“Local  Authority”  means  a  Municipal  Council,  Urban
Council or a Pradeshiya Sabha and any authority
created  or  established  by  or  under  any  law  to
exercise, perform and discharge powers, duties and
functions corresponding or similar to the powers,
duties  and  functions  exercised,  performed  and
discharged by any such Council or Sabha;

“public  corporation”  means  any  Corporation,  board  or
other body which was or is established by or under
any    written  law  other  than  the  Companies
Act, No. 07 of 2007, with funds or capital wholly or
partly provided by the Government by way of grant,
loan or otherwise; and

“written law” means any  law and subordinate legislation
including  statutes  made  by  a  Provincial  Council,
Orders,  Proclamations,  Rules,  By-Laws  and
Regulations made or issued by any body or person
having power or authority under any law to make
or issue the same.

19.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case  of
inconsistency

14

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 35 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

