PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

PROHIBITION OF ANTI-PERSONNEL MINES
  ACT, No. 3 OF 2022

[Certified on 17th of February, 2022]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 18, 2022

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

  Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines
Act, No. 3 of 2022

1

[Certified on 17th of February, 2022]

L.D.—O. 40/2018

AN  ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONVENTION ON
THE PROHIBITION OF THE USE, STOCKPILING, PRODUCTION AND
TRANSFER OF ANTI-PERSONNEL MINES AND ON THEIR DESTRUCTION;
AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO.

WHEREAS  a  Convention  on  the  Prohibition  of  the  Use,
Stockpiling,  Production  and  Transfer  of  Anti-Personnel
Mines  and  on  Their  Destruction  was  concluded  by  the
Diplomatic  Conference  on  an  International  Total  Ban  on
Anti-Personnel Land Mines at Oslo on  September 18, 1997:

Preamble

WHEREAS the Convention was acceded to on behalf of the
Government of Sri Lanka on December 13, 2017:

AND  WHEREAS  it  has  become  necessary  for  the
Government of Sri Lanka to make legislative provision to
give  effect  to  Sri  Lanka’s  obligations  under  the  aforesaid
Convention:

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Prohibition  of

Short  title

Anti-Personnel Mines Act, No. 3 of  2022.

PART I

PRELIMINARY 

2. The  provisions  of  this  Act  shall  apply  to  the  acts

specified in section 3 done by-

Application  of
this  Act

(a) any person within Sri Lanka and on board any ship

or aircraft registered in Sri Lanka; or 

(b) any citizen of Sri Lanka, outside Sri Lanka.

2

3.
not-

Offences

 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines
Act, No. 3 of 2022

(l) Except as provided for in this Act, a person shall

(a) receive, use, develop, produce, import, export, sell,
expose for sale, purchase, supply, transport, acquire,
possess,  retain,  stockpile  or  transfer    an  anti-
personnel mine; and

(b) modify or convert an anti-personnel mine into any

other form of an explosive. 

(2) Any person who acts in contravention of this section
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine  not  exceeding  five  hundred  thousand  rupees  or  to
imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding
ten years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

4.

(1) A member of the armed forces or a police officer
may, in the course of his employment or duties, receive, use,
develop,  produce,  transport,  acquire,  possess,  retain,  or
transfer an anti-personnel mine authorized under section 5
for  the  purposes  of  developing,  or  training  persons  in,
techniques  of  mine  detection,  mine  clearance,  mine
deactivation, or mine destruction.

(2) Subject to the provisions of section 11, a member of
the armed forces or a police officer may, in the course of his
employment  or  duties,  seize,  receive,  transfer,  acquire  or
retain an anti-personnel mine for the purposes of deactivating
or destroying such anti-personnel mine.

Exceptions

Minister  may
authorize  an
anti-
personnel
mine  for
certain
purposes

5.

(1) For the purposes of developing, or training persons
in,  techniques  of  mine  detection,  mine  clearance,  mine
deactivation,  or  mine  destruction,  the  Minister  may  from
time to time, by notice published in the Gazette authorize
the retention or transfer of a number of anti-personnel mines.

  Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines
Act, No. 3 of 2022

3

(2) The number of anti-personnel mines authorized under
subsection  (1)  shall  not  exceed  the  minimum  number
absolutely necessary for the above-mentioned purposes.

6.

(1) A member of the armed forces or a police officer
who receives, uses, develops, produces, transports, acquires,
possesses, retains, or transfers an anti-personnel mine shall-

Supply  of
information

(a) as  soon  as  practicable,  send  information  on  such
activities to the Minister in such form and manner,
as may be determined by the Minister;

(b)  keep records in relation to such anti-personnel mine
and the purpose to which such anti-personnel mine
is put;

(c) prepare, from those records, periodic reports relating
to such anti-personnel mine in a form determined
by the Minister; and

(d) send those periodic reports to the Secretary to the
Ministry  of  the  Minister  at  intervals  as  may  be
prescribed.

(2) The Minister may call for special reports from such
member of the armed forces or police officer who has sent
information to the Minister  under paragraph (a) of subsection
(1), in the prescribed circumstances.

(3) A member of the armed forces or a police officer who,
without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails to comply with
subsections (1) and (2) commits an offence.

7. A member of the armed forces or a police officer who
knowingly, in the preparation of any document under section
6 makes a statement or omits any matter which misleads in
material particulars in the document commits an offence.

misleading
statements  and
documents

4

 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines
Act, No. 3 of 2022

PART II

DESTRUCTION OF AN ANTI-PRESONNEL MINE

Anti-  personnel
mines  owned  or
possessed  by  the
Government

 8. The Secretary shall ensure the destruction of all the
anti-personnel mines owned or possessed by the Government
except the number of anti-personnel mines authorized under
section 5.

Anti-  personnel
mines  in  the
State  land

9.

(1) The Secretary shall make every effort to identify
or cause the identification of  areas within the land owned or
controlled by the State or government institution where anti-
personnel mines are known or suspected to be emplaced.

(2) Upon the identification of areas under subsection (1),
the  Secretary  shall  make  best  endeavours  to  mark  the
perimeter and, monitor and protect by fencing or other means
to ensure the effective exclusion of public, until all the anti-
personnel mines are destroyed.

Obligation  to
provide
information

10.

(1) Where any person finds an anti-personnel mine,
such person shall inform a member of the armed forces or a
police officer immediately.

(2) The person referred to in subsection (1) shall take all
reasonable steps to ensure that the anti-personnel mine will
not  be  exploded  before  a  member  of  the  armed  forces  or
police officer arrives at the relevant premises.

Anti-  personnel
mine  in  private
premises

11.

(1) Where a member of the armed forces or police
officer  has  reasonable  grounds  to  suspect  that  an  anti-
personnel mine is on any private premises, such officer may–

(a) with  the  consent  of  the  person  in  charge  of  the
premises,  enter    and  search  such  premises  at  all
reasonable times;

(b) make such anti-personnel mine safe from being an

immediate danger;

  Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines
Act, No. 3 of 2022

5

(c) affix a warning relating to the anti-personnel mine
in a conspicuous position to a thing or place near
such anti-personnel mine;

(d) take into custody any article or document in relation
to the anti-personnel mine found or suspected to be
in such premises;

(e) seize, remove and detain any anti-personnel mine,

if it is reasonably practicable to do so;

(f) question any person occupying such premises; or

(g) do any act or thing necessary or convenient to be
done  to  carry  out  an  investigation  into  the  anti-
personnel  mine  found  or  suspected  to  be  in  such
premises.

(2)  The  duties  referred  to  in  subsection  (1)  shall  be
performed  by  the  member  of  the  armed  forces  or  police
officer in accordance with such manner and procedures as
may be prescribed.

(3) Where a member of the armed forces or police officer
has  reasonable  grounds  to  suspect  that  an  anti-personnel
mine is on any private premises, such member of armed forces
or  police  officer  shall  as  soon  as  practicable    inform  the
Secretary of such suspicious.

(4) The person in charge of any private premises referred
to in subsection (1) shall provide such assistance as may be
required by such member of the armed forces or police officer
in  performance  of  his  duties  under  paragraph  (a)  of
subsection (1). 

(5) Where the person in charge of any premises referred to
in subsection (1) refuses to allow the member of the armed
forces or a police officer to enter and search such premises,
the member of the armed forces or the police officer shall

6

 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines
Act, No. 3 of 2022

enter and search the premises referred to in subsection (1)
under a warrant issued under section 13 in respect of that
premises.

Offences

 12.

(1) A person who finds an anti-personnel mine and
fails to inform such matter to a member of the armed forces
or a police officer commits an offence.

(2)  A  person  who  resists  or  obstructs  a  member  of  the
armed forces or a police officer in the performance of duties
under section 11 commits an offence.

(3)  A  person  who  fails  to  act  in  accordance  with  the
warning  given  under  paragraph  (c)  of  subsection  (1)  of
section 11 commits an offence.

PART III

GENERAL PROVISIONS

Warrant

 13. Where a Magistrate is satisfied by information on

oath that there is reason to suspect that–

(a) an anti-personnel mine is received, used, developed,
produced,  imported,  exported,  sold,  exposed  for
sale,  purchased,  supplied,  transported,  acquired,
possessed, retained, stockpiled or transferred to any
premises in contravention of the provisions of this
Act; or 

(b) any  article  or  document  directly  or  indirectly
relating  to  or  connected  with  any  transaction  or
dealing  which  is,  or  any  intended  transaction  or
dealing which, if carried out, would be an offence
under this Act, is in any premises, 

he may grant a search warrant authorizing any member of
armed forces or police officer named in the warrant, at any
time or times within one month from the date of the warrant,

  Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines
Act, No. 3 of 2022

7

to enter, with or without his assistants, if need be by force,
the premises named in the warrant, and to search the premises
and any person found therein.

14. The High Court established by Article 154P of the
Constitution for the Western Province holden in Colombo
shall  notwithstanding  anything  in  any  other  law,  have
exclusive jurisdiction to hear, try and punish the offences
under this Act.

High  Court  to
try  offences
under  this  Act

15.

(1) Every person who contravenes or fails to comply
with  any  provision  of  this  Act  or  any  regulation  made
thereunder, or any direction given under this Act commits
an offence under this Act.

General  penalty

(2)  Every  person  who  attempts  to  commit  or  abet  the
commission of an offence under this Act commits the same
offence and shall be liable to the same punishment.

(3) Every person who commits an offence under this Act
for which no other punishment is expressly provided in this
Act,  shall  on  conviction  be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding
five hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding five years or to both
such fine and imprisonment.

16. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a

body of persons then-

Offences
committed  by
body  of  persons

(a) if the body of persons is a body corporate, every
person who at the time of commission of the offence
was a director, general manager, secretary or other
similar officer of that body; or

(b) if  that  body  of  persons  is  not  a  body  corporate,
every person who at the time of commission of the
offence was a member of that body,

commits that offence.

Forfeiture

8

 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines
Act, No. 3 of 2022

17.

(1)  The  Court  which  convicts  any  person  of  an
offence  under  this  Act,  may  impose  any  of  the  penalties
hereinbefore specified and may, if it thinks fit, order that all
or any articles in respect of which the offence was committed,
and any thing used for the conveyance of such articles are
liable to be forfeited to the State.

(2) An order for forfeiture imposed under subsection (1)

shall take effect-

(a) where no appeal is preferred to the Court of Appeal
against the order of forfeiture, on the expiration of
the period within which an appeal may be preferred
to  the  Court  of  Appeal  against  such  order  of
forfeiture;

(b) where an appeal had been preferred to the Court of
Appeal  against  such  order  of  forfeiture,  and  no
appeal  is  preferred  to  the  Supreme  Court  against
the  order  of  the  Court  of  Appeal  affirming  or
upholding such order of forfeiture, on the expiration
of  the  period  within  which  an  appeal  may  be
preferred to the Supreme Court from such order of
the Court of Appeal; or

(c) where an appeal had been preferred, to the Court of
Appeal  against  such  order  of  forfeiture,  and  an
appeal  has  been  preferred  to  the  Supreme  Court
from the determination of the Court of Appeal on
the first mentioned appeal, upon the determination
of the Supreme Court affirming or upholding the
order of forfeiture.

(3) The provisions of Chapter XXXVIII of Part IX of the
Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall apply
in relation to the disposal of  any article forfeited to the State
under subsection (1).

  Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines
Act, No. 3 of 2022

9

18.

(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect
of matters for which regulations are authorized or required
to be made or to be prescribed by this Act.

Regulations

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations for all or any of the following purposes-

(a) the procedures to be complied with in relation to
entering  and  searching  premises  suspected  of
containing  an  anti-personnel  mine;

(b) the  manner  and  procedures  of  detention,  seizing,
removal and destruction of an anti-personnel mine
and  document;

(c) the manner and procedures to be followed to take
into custody of any article or document in relation
to the anti-personnel mine;

(d) the forms and content of records;

(e) the period for which such records are to be kept;

(f) the  form  and  content  of  periodic  reports  to  be

provided;

(g) the  circumstances  in  which  special  reports  are
required and the form and content of such special
reports;

(h) the  time  within  which  such  periodic  reports  and

special reports are to be made; and

(i) the persons who are to sign such periodic reports

and special reports.

10

 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines
Act, No. 3 of 2022

(3)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  shall  be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in such regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall within a
period of three months after its publication in the Gazette,
be brought before Parliament for approval. Any regulation
which is not so approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded as
from the date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to
anything  previously  done  thereunder.

(5)  A  Notification  of  the  date  of  disapproval  shall  be

published in the Gazette.

Assistance  to  a
Country  etc.

19. The provisions of the Mutual Assistance in Criminal
Matters  Act,  No.  25  of  2002  shall  apply  in  respect  of
providing  assistance  to  any  country  or  intergovernmental
organization as declared under that Act for the purpose of
investigation and prosecution of an offence under this Act.

Interpretation

20.

In this Act unless the context otherwise requires-

“anti-personnel  mine”  means  a  mine  designed  to
be  exploded  by  the  presence,  proximity  or
contact of a person and that will incapacitate,
injure  or  kill  one  or  more  persons.  Mine
designed  to  be  detonated  by  the  presence,
proximity or contact of a vehicle as opposed
to  a  person,  that  are  equipped  with  anti-
handling  devices,  are  not  considered  anti-
personnel  mines  as  a  result  of  being  so
equipped;

“armed forces” mean Army, Navy and Air Force
raised  and  maintained  under  Army  Act
(Chapter 357), Navy Act (Chapter 358) and Air
Force Act (Chapter 359) respectively;

  Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines
Act, No. 3 of 2022

11

“convention”  means  the  Convention  on  the
Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production
and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on
Their Destruction concluded by the Diplomatic
Conference on an International Total Ban on
Anti-Personnel  Land  Mines  at  Oslo  on
September 18, 1997;

“government  institution”  includes  any  Ministry,
government  department,    public  corporation,
local  authority, business or other undertaking
within  the  meaning  of  Conversion  of
Government  Owned  Business  Undertakings
into Public Corporations Act, No. 22 of 1987,
company registered or deemed to be registered
under  the  Companies  Act,  No.  7  of  2007,  in
which the Government, a public corporation,
or  any  local  authority  holds  more  than  fifty
per centum of the shares and any  Ministry or
Department of  any Provincial Council or any
Authority  established  by  or  created  by  a
Provincial  Council;

“mine” means ammunition designed to be placed
under, on or near the ground or other surface
area  and  to  be  exploded  by  the  presence,
proximity or contact of a person or a vehicle;

“Minister” means the Minister to whom this Act is
assigned  under  Article  44  or  45  of  the
Constitution;

“police officer” shall have same meaning as in the

Police Ordinance (Chapter 53);

“public corporation” means any corporation, board
or other body which was or is established by or
under  any  written  law  other  than  the
Companies  Ordinance,  with  funds  or  capital
wholly or partly provided by the Government
by way of grant, loan or otherwise;

12

 Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines
Act, No. 3 of 2022

“secretary” means the Secretary to the Ministry of

the Minister; and 

“transfer”  involves,  in  addition  to  the  physical
movement  of  an  anti-personnel  mine  into  or
from national territory, the transfer of title to
and control over the mine, but does not involve
the  transfer  of  territory  containing  emplaced
anti-personnel mine.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of
inconsistency

21.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

 
  Prohibition of Anti-Personnel Mines
Act, No. 3 of 2022

13

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

