PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SISIRA  JAYAKODY  SIYAPATHA  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)  ACT,  No. 20  OF  2022

[Certified on 06th of September, 2022]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 09, 2022

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 20.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

1

[Certified on 06th of September, 2022]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 10/2016

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SISIRA JAYAKODY SIYAPATHA
FOUNDATION

WHEREAS  a  Foundation  called  and  known  as  the  “Sisira
Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation”  has  heretofore  been
established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying
out its objects and transacting all matters connected  with the
said  Foundation  according  to  the  rules  agreed  to  by  its
members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to
grant the said application :

BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Sisira  Jayakody
Siyapatha Foundation  (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of  2022.

Short  title

2.

(1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of  the Sisira
Jayakody Siyapatha Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) and shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the  body  corporate  hereby  constituted  shall  have  perpetual
succession under the name and style of  the “Sisira Jayakody
Siyapatha Foundation” (hereinafter  referred to as the  “body
corporate”), and by that name may sue and be sued with full
power and authority to have, and  use a common seal and to
alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporation  of
the  Sisira
Jayakody
Siyapatha
Foundation

2

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Services Organization within the meaning and for the
purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Services  Organization
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions  of  that  Act  shall  apply  to  and  in  relation  to  the
management of the affairs of the body corporate.

General  objects
of  the  body
Corporate

3.  (1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  any  written  law,  the
general objects for which the body corporate is constituted
are hereby declared to be–

(a) to conduct various studies, lectures and seminars to
encourage self-employment and to provide necessary
trainings, assistance and sponsorships to those who
are  unemployed  with  a  view  to  promoting  self
employment;

(b) to assist the relevant authorities with the consent of
such  authorities  to  renovate  and  maintain  religious
places;

(c) to conduct the mobile service programme called “Jana
Sahana”  to  provide  various  assistance  to  needy
people;

(d) to conduct lectures and seminars on the rquirements
of the job market in order to give assistance to the
undergraduate  students  to  equip  themselves  with
required  quqlifications  and  trainings;

(e) to  provide  assistance  and  implement  support

programmes for senior citizens; and

(f) to  take  actions  in  order  to  develop  the  indigenous
medicine with the consent of the relevant authorities.

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

3

(2) In  the  implementation  of  the  objects  specified  in
subsection  (1),  the  body  corporate  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation shall be carried out without any distinction
based  on  race,  religion,  language,  caste,  gender,  political
opinion, place of birth or such other ground.

4. The  objects  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  carried
out subject to necessary approvals under applicable written
laws  and  in  such  manner  so  as  not  to  create  any  conflict
between the work of the body corporate and any work being
carried out simultaneously by any Ministry or Department
of the Government or of any Provincial Council.

Body  corporate
to  ensure  no
conflict  with  the
work  of  Ministry
or  Department  of
the  Government
or  Provincial
Council

5. 

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, and the rules
made under section 7, the management and administration
of the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by a
Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”)
consisting of such number of office bearers as may be specified
by the rules made under section 7.

Management  of
affairs  of  the
body  corporate

(2)  (a)  The  members  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act shall, subject to the
rules made under paragraph (b), function as an Interim Board
of  the  body  corporate  until  the  first  Board  is  appointed  or
elected within the period specified in paragraph (d) and in
the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) Subject  to  the  provisions  of  section  7,  the  Interim
Board of the body corporate shall have the power to make
rules for the interim administration of the body corporate not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other written
law.

4

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

(c) Any decision of the Interim Board shall be taken by

the majority of its members present at any meeting.

(d) The  first  Board  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be
appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

(3)  (a)  Every  office  bearer  of  the  Board  including  the
patrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a period
of three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisor
shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapse
of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Board shall have regard to the rules of the body
corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term of
office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters  as are necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects
of  the  body  corporate  or  any  one  of  them,  including  the
power–

(a) to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwise
obtain lands or buildings which may be required for
the purposes of the body corporate and to deal with
or dispose of the same as may be determined by the
Board  with  a  view  to  promoting  the  objects  of  the
body  corporate;

Powers  of  the
body  corporate

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

5

(b) to enter into and perform or carry out, whether directly
or through any officer or agent authorised in that behalf
by the body corporate, all such contracts or agreements
as may be necessary for the attainment of the objects
or the exercise of the powers of the body corporate;

(c) to  borrow  or  raise  funds  with  or  without  securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations from local or
foreign sources in cash or kind:

Provided  that,  the  Board  shall  obtain  the  prior
written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources in respect of all foreign funds, grants, gifts
or  donations  received  by  or  made  to  the  body
corporate;

(d) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory  notes  and  other  negotiable  instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts in
any  bank;

(e) to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for the purposes of the body corporate, in such manner
as the Board may determine;

(f) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and administer
any  lawful  trust  having  objects  similar  to  the  body
corporate or any real or personal property with a view
to promoting the objects of the body corporate;

(g) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and other employees of the body corporate
and exercise disciplinary control over them  and to
pay  them  such  salaries  and  allowances  as  may  be
determined by the body corporate;

6

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

(h) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with a
view  to  promoting  the  objectives  of  the  body
corporate;

(i) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions having similar objects to those of the body
corporate;

(j) to train officers and other employees in Sri Lanka or
abroad for the purposes of the body corporate; and

(k) to do all such acts and other things authorized by this
Act for the achievement of the objects of the body
corporate.

Rules  of  the
body  corporate

7.

(1)  It  shall  be  lawful  for  the  body  corporate,  from
time to time, at any general meeting of the body corporate
and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members
present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions  of  this  Act  or  any  other  written  law,  for  the
following matters:–

(a) the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal,  expulsion  or  resignation  of  members
and fees payable by the members;

(b) the  election  of  the  office  bearers  of  the  Board  or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;

(c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions  and  duties  of  various  officers  and  other
employees of the body corporate;

(d) the  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  summoning
and holding of meetings of the body corporate and
of the Board, notices and agenda of such meetings,
the quorum and the conduct of business thereat;

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

7

(e) the  qualifications  and  disqualifications  to  be  a
member of the Board and the body corporate;

(f) the administration and management of the property

of the body corporate;

(g) the  procedure  and  manner  of  liaising  and
coordinating  with  other  local  and  foreign
institutions having objects similar to that of the body
corporate; and

(h) generally, the management of the affairs of the body
corporate and the dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be published
in the Gazette  and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

(4) Every rule made by the body corporate within three
months after its publication in the Gazette be brought before
parliament for approval. Any rule which is not so approved
shall  be  deemed  to  be  rescinded  as  from  the  date  of  such
disapproval  but  without  prejudice  to  anything  previously
done  thereunder.

(5)  Notification  of  the  date  on  which  any  such  rule  is
deemed  to  be  so  rescinded  under  subsection  (4)  shall  be
published in the Gazette.

(6) The members of body corporate shall at all times be

subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members shall be inscribed.

Register  of
members

8

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

Fund  of  the
body  corporate

9.

(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2)  All  moneys  received  by  way  of  gifts,  bequests,
donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grant for and
on account of the body corporate shall be deposited in one
or more banks approved by the Board to the credit of the
body corporate subject to the provisions of section 6(c).

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums of
money as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by
the  body  corporate  in  the  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

Accounts  and
Auditing

10.

(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept  of  its  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities
and all other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  the  Auditor  General  or  a  qualified  auditor
appointed by the Auditor General in terms of provisions of
Article  154  of  the  Constitution,  and  be  certified  by  the
Auditor General or such qualified auditor.

(4)  For  the  purposes  of  this  section  “qualified  auditor”

means–

(a)

an  individual  who  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or  of  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practise  as  an
Accountant  issued  by    the  Council  of  such
institute;  or

Annual
Report

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

9

(b)

a  firm  of  Accountants  each  of  the  resident
partners  of  which,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or  of  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practise  as  an
Accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
institute.

11.

(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of  the  body  corporate  for  each  financial  year  and  submit
such report together with the audited statement of accounts
and a list of all assets and liabilities of the body corporate
certified by the Auditor General or a qualified auditor referred
to in section 10, to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister
assigned  the  subject  of  education  and  to  the  Registrar  of
Voluntary Social Service Organizations appointed under the
Voluntary  Social  Service  Organizations  (Registration  and
Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of
six months of the year succeeding the year to which such
report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreign
and local moneys received by the body corporate and details
of  all  contracts  and  agreements  entered  into  by  the  body
corporate and the rules of the body corporate made under
section 7 during the financial year shall be attached to the
report referred to in subsection (1).

12. All debts and liabilities of the foundation existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  body  corporate  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to  and  subscriptions  and
contributions  payable  to  the  Foundation  on  that  day  shall
be paid to the body corporate for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Foundation

Body  Corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

Application  of
moneys  and
property

10

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

13. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall be able and capable in
law to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant,  gift,  testamentary  disposition  or  otherwise,  and  all
such  property  shall  be  held  by  the  body  corporate  for  the
purpose  of  this  Act  and  subject  to  the  rules  of  the  body
corporate made under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose of the same.

14. The  moneys  and  property  of  the  body  corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion  of  the  objects  of  the  body  corporate  and  no
portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  transferred  directly  or
indirectly  by  way  of  dividend,  bonus,  profit  or  otherwise
howsoever to the members of the body corporate.

Seal  of  the  body
corporate

15.

(1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members  of  the  Board  who  shall  sign  their  names  to  the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by the
Board.

16.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  body  corporate,
there  remains    after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities, and property whatsoever, such property shall not
be distributed among the members of the body corporate, but
shall be given or transferred to any other institution having
objects  similar to those of the body corporate, and which is
by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing an income
or property among its members.

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

11

(2)  For  the  purpose  of  subsection  (1),  the  appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at  a  general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic

18.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

12

Sisira  Jayakody  Siyapatha  Foundation
 (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

