PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

——————

DR.  SAMAN  WEERASINGHE  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation

——————

Presented by the Hon. Chandima Weerakkody, M.P.
for Galle District on 21st of September, 2022

(Published in the Gazette on September 12, 2022)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

——————

[Bill No. 150]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DR. SAMAN WEERASINGHE
FOUNDATION

WHEREAS  a  Board  called  and  known  as  the  “Dr.  Saman
Weerasinghe  Foundation”  has  heretofore  been  established
in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the objects and matters
for which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated
and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to  grant  such
application:

BE it  therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the Dr. Saman Weerasinghe

Short  title

Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.      of  2022.

Incorporation
of  the  Dr.
Saman
Weerasinghe
Foundation

2. From  and  after  the  date  of  commencement  of  this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation” (hereinafter referred to
as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members
shall be a body corporate  (hereinafter referred to as the “body
corporate”)  with  perpetual  succession  under  the  name  and
style of  “Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation” and by that
name may sue and be sued in all Courts, with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the same
at its pleasure.

The  body  corparate  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  Voluntary
Social  Service  Organization  within  the  meaning  and  for
purposes  of  Voluntary  Social  Service  Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980.

5

10

15

20

25

3.

(1) The general objects for which the body corporate

30

is constituted are—

(a) to  promote  peace  and  harmony  among  all

communities in Sri Lanka;

General
objects  of  the
body
corporate

2

Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)

(b) to  provide  books,  uniforms,  learning  materials,
musical  instruments,  nutritious  foods,  sports
equipments, educational aides to needy children of
school going and kinder ages and grant scholarships
to them;

5

(c) to provide medicines and food to the people in need;

(d) to promote and protect rights of women and children;

(e) to promote and protect fundamental rights;

(f) to  organize  leadership  training  programmes  to

10

youth;

(g) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local institutions

or foundations which have similar objects:

15

20

Provided  however,  that  above  objects  shall  be
carried out in such manner so as not to create any
conflict with work  being carried out by any Ministry
or  Department  of  the  Government  or  of  any
Provincial  Council.

4.

(1) The affairs of the body corporate shall, subject to
the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the
time being of the body corporate be administered by a Board
of  Directors  consisting  of  Chairman,  Secretary,  Treasurer
and another eleven members elected in accordance with such
rules, for a period of 3 years.

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the  body
corporate

(2) The first Board of the body corporate shall consist of
the  members  of  the  Board  of  administration  of  the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act and shall hold office
for a period not exceeding one year and shall be empowered
to make rules for interim administration of the body corporate
and for election and appointment of the Board.

25

30

Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)

3

5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things what
so ever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the body corporate or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
moveable,  to  open,  operate  and  close  bank  accounts,  to
borrow or raise moneys with or without security, to erect any
building or structures on any land held by the body corporate
and  to  engage,  employ  and  dismiss  officers  and  servants
required  for  the  carrying  out  of  the  objects  of  the  body
corporate.

General
powers  of  the
body
corporate

6.

(1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time
to  time,  at  any  general  meeting  of  the  members  and  by  a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions
of  this  Act,  or  any  other  written  law,  for  all  or  any  of  the
following matters:—

Rules  of  the
body
corporate

(a) the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal,  expulsion  or  resignation  of  members
and membership fees payable;

(b) procedure  to  be  observed  for  the  summoning  and
holding of meetings of the body corporate and of
the Board of Directors, the quorum of such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and  duties;

(c) the  appointment,  powers,  duties  and  functions  of
the various officers, agents and servants of the body
corporate;

5

10

15

20

25

30

(d) qualifications required to become a member of the
body corporate and of the Board of Directors;

(e) election, vacation and removal of office bearers and
members  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  body
corporate;

4

Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)

(f) the administration and management of the property

of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be amended,
altered, added to, or replaced at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

5

(3)  Every  rule  so  made  by  the  body  corporate  shall  be
published  in  the  Gazette  within  three  months  of  making
such  rules  and  shall  come  in  to  effect  on  such  date  of
publication.

10

15

7. All  debts  and  liabilities  of  the  Foundation  existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the body corporate hereby constituted and
all debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to
the  Foundation  on  that  day  shall  be  paid  to  the  body
corporate for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the  Fund

8.

(1) The body corporate shall have its own fund and
all moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants  for  and    on  account  of  the  Corporation  shall  be
deposited to the credit of the body corporate in one or more
banks as the body corporate shall determine.

Funds  of  the
body
corporate

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the  body
corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.

(3)  A  detailed  report  of  activities  conducted  for  each
financial year by the body corporate shall be submitted to
the Registrar of Voluntary Social Services Organizations as
defined  at  Voluntary  Social  Services  Organizations
(Registration  and  Supervision)  Act,  No.  31  of  1980,  with
details of local and foreign funds received, within six months
from the end of each financial year.

20

25

30

Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)

5

9. The body corporate shall be able and capable in law
to acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the body corporate for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being
of  the  body  corporate,  with  full  power  to  sell,  mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same, provided
that  prior  written  approval  shall  be  obtained  from  the
Department  of  External  Resources  of  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister assigned the subject of Finance  in respect of receipt
of all foreign grants, gifts or donations.

Body
corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

10. No member of the body corporate shall be liable for
any  contribution  exceeding  the  amount  of  relevant
membership  fees  due  from  such  member  of  the  body
corporate, for satisfaction of debts and liabilities of the body
corporate or for any other purpose.

Limitation  of
liabilities  of
members

11. If upon the dissolution of the body corporate, there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the body corporate, but
shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  some  other  institution  or
institutions  having  objects  similar  to  those  of  the  body
corporate and which is or are by its or their rules, prohibited
from  distributing  any  income  or  property  among  their
members.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

5

10

15

20

25

12. (1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Audit  and
accounts  of
the  body
corporate

30

(2) The  body  corporate  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to
be  kept  of  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities
and all other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  the  Auditor  General  or  a  qualified  auditor
appointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of the
Constitution.

35

6

Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means —

(a)

(b)

an  individual  who,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant,  issued  by    the  Council  of  such
institute;  or

a  firm  of  Accountants  each  of  the  resident
partners  of  which,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or  of  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  of  practice  as  an
Accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
institute.

13. The Seal of the body corporate shall not be affixed to
any  instrument  whatsoever  except  in  the  presence  of  the
Chairman  or  a  member  of  the  Board    as  may  be  duly
authorized by the Board and another member of the Board
who shall sign their names on the  instrument in token of
their presence and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
body
corporate

14. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect  the  rights  of  the  Republic  or  of  anybody  politic,  or
corporate  or  of  any  other  persons  except  such  as  are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

15.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

5

10

15

20

25

Dr. Saman Weerasinghe Foundation
(Incorporation)

7

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

