PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

PAVITHRA  WANNIARACHCHI  SAHURDA
FOUNDATION  (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  No. 31  OF  2024

[Certified on 18th of  June, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 20, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs.24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Pavithra  Wanniarachchi  Sahurda  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

1

[Certified on 18th of June, 2024]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 15/2022

AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  PAVITHRA WANNIARACHCHI
SAHURDA  FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Pavithra
Wanniarachchi  Sahurda  Foundation”  has  heretofore  been
established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying
out its objects and transacting all matters connected with the
said  Foundation  according  to  the  rules  agreed  to  by  its
members as set out herein:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the  said  application:

BE  it  therefore  enacted  by  Parliament  of  the  Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the Pavithra Wanniarachchi

Short  title

Sahurda Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024.

Incorporation  of
the  Pavithra
Wanniarachchi
Sahurda
Foundation

2.

(1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation” (hereinafter
referred  to  as  the  “Foundation”)  and  shall  hereafter  be
admitted  as  members  of  the  body  Corporate  hereby
constituted shall have perpetual succession under the name
and  style  of  the  “Pavithra  Wanniarachchi  Sahurda
Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the “body Corporate”),
and by that name may sue and be sued with full power and
authority to have, and use a common seal and  to alter the
same at its pleasure.

2

Pavithra  Wanniarachchi  Sahurda  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a voluntary
social service organization within the meaning, and for the
purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Service  Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions  of  that  Act  shall  apply  to  and  in  relation  to  the
management of the affairs of the body corporate.

General  objects
of  the  body
corporate

3.  (1)    Subject  to  any  other  written  law,  to  the  extent
permitted  by  such  law,  the  general  objects  for  which  the
body corporate is constituted are hereby declared to be–

(a)

to promote and educate people on the life and the
works  of  the  late  Darmadasa  Wanniarachchi  and
the invaluable services rendered by him to people;

(b)

to assist the relevant authorities with the consent of
such authorities-

(i) to organize cultural programmes to promote
social and cultural values of different ethnic
groups of   Sri Lanka;

(ii) to organize programmes to promote racial and
religious  harmony  and  co-operation  among
people of Sri Lanka; and

(iii) to promote the welfare facilities of people of

Sri Lanka.

(2)  In  the  implementation  of  the  objects  specified  in
subsection  (1),  the  body  corporate  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation shall be carried out without any distinction
based  on  race,  religion,  language,  caste,  sex,  political
opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.

Pavithra  Wanniarachchi  Sahurda  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

3

4. The  objects  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  carried
out in such manner so as not to create any conflict between
the work of the body corporate and any work being carried
out simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of  the
Government,  or  of  any  Provincial  Council,  any  local
authority or any public corporation.

Body  corporate
to  ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of
Ministry  or
Department  of
the  Government
or  Provincial
Council  etc

5.

(1)    Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  any
other  written  law,  the  management  and  administration  of
the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by a
Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”)
consisting  of  such  number  of  office  bearers  as  may  be
specified by rules made under section 7.

Management  of
the  affairs  of  the
body  corporate

(2) (a) The Board of Directors of the Foundation holding
office  on  the  day  immediately  preceding  the  date  of
commencement of this Act shall, subject to the rules made
under paragraph (b) of this subsection, function as the Interim
Board of the body corporate until the first Board is appointed
or elected in the manner provided for by rules made under
section 7.

(b)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  section  7,  the  Interim
Board of the body corporate shall have the power to make
rules  for  the  interim  administration  of  the  body  corporate
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law.

(c)  Any  decision  of  the  Interim  Board  of  the  body
corporate  shall  be  taken  by  the  majority  of  its  members
present.

(d) The  first  Board  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be
appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  from  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

4

Pavithra  Wanniarachchi  Sahurda  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

(3)  (a)  Every  office  bearer  of  the  Board  including  the
patrons  and  advisers,  shall  be  appointed  or  elected  for  a
period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or
adviser  shall  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  or  re-election
after the lapse of the said period of three years.

(b)  In  the  event  of  a  vacancy  occurring  due  to  the
death, resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an
office bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of
the  body  corporate,  elect  or  appoint  a  person  to  fill  such
vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.

Powers  of  the
body  corporate

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and things as are necessary
or desirable for the achievement of the objects of the body
corporate or any one of them, including the power–

(a)

(b)

to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwise
obtain  lands  or  buildings  which  may  be  required
for the purposes of the body corporate and to deal
with or dispose of the same as determined by the
Board with a view to promoting the objects of the
body  corporate;

to  enter  into  and  perform  or  carry  out,  whether
directly or through any officer or agent authorized
in  that  behalf  by  the  body  corporate,  all  such
contracts or agreements as may be necessary for the
attainment  of  the  objects  or  the  exercise  of  the
powers of the body corporate;

Pavithra  Wanniarachchi  Sahurda  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

5

(c)

to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind for the attainment of the objects of the body
corporate:

Provided that, the Board  shall obtain the prior
written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources, in respect of all foreign grants, gifts or
donations made to the body corporate;

to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts
in any bank;

to  invest  any  funds  that  are  not  immediately
required for the purposes of the body corporate, in
such manner as the Board may determine;

to  undertake,  accept,  execute,  perform  and
administer any lawful trust having objects similar
to  the  body  corporate  or  any  real  or  personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;

to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the body corporate and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities, as may
be  determined  by  the  body  corporate  in  terms  of
rules made under section 7 of this Act;

to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a  view  to  promoting  the  objects  of  the  body
corporate;

to  liaise  and  co-ordinate  with  other  local  and
foreign  institutions  having  similar  objects  to  that
of the body corporate; and

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

Rules  of  the
body  corporate

6

Pavithra  Wanniarachchi  Sahurda  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

(j)

to train officers and servants in Sri Lanka or abroad
for the purpose of the body corporate.

7.

(1)  It  shall  be  lawful  for  the  body  corporate,  from
time to time, at any general meeting of the body corporate
and by a majority  of not less than two-thirds of the members
present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by the members;

the  election  of  office  bearers  of  the  Board  or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;

the  terms  and  conditions  of  appoinment,  powers,
functions and duties of  various officers and servants
of the body corporate;

the  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  summoning
and holding of meetings of the body corporate and
of the Board or notices and agenda of such meetings,
the quorum and the conduct of business thereat;

the qualifications and disqualifications to be a member
of the Board and the body corporate;

the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate; and

(g) generally, the management of the affairs of the body
corporate  and  the  accomplishment  of  its’  objects
and dissolution of the body corporate.

Pavithra  Wanniarachchi  Sahurda  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

7

(2)  Any  rule  made  by  the  body  corporate  may  be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like  meeting
and in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of
this  section.

(3) The rules made under paragraph (b) of subsection (2)
of  section  5  and  subsection  (1)  of  this  section  shall  be
published in the Gazette within three months upon making
of such rules and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

(4)  Every rule made under paragraph (b) of subsection (2)
of section 5 and subsection (1) of this section shall within
three months of its publication in the  Gazette,  be  brought
before  Parliament  for  approval.  Any  rule  which  is  not  so
approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of  such  disapproval,  but  without  prejudice  to  anything
previously  done  thereunder.

(5)  Notification  of  the  date  on  which  any  such  rule  is
deemed  to  be  so  rescinded  under  subsection  (4)  shall  be
published in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all times

be subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members shall be inscribed.

Register  of
members

9.

(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

Fund  of  the
body  corporate

(2)  All  moneys  received  by  way  of  gifts,  bequests,
donations,  subscriptions,  contributions,  fees  or  grants  for
and on account of the body corporate shall be deposited in
one or more banks approved by the Board to the credit of the
body corporate subject to the provisions of section 6(c).

8

Pavithra  Wanniarachchi  Sahurda  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums  of money
as  are  required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

Accounts  and
Auditing

10.

(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept  of  its  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities
and all other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  a  qualified  auditor    and  be  certified  by  such
qualified  auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section, “qualified auditor”

means—

(a)

(b)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of  Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  of  any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practise as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or

a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of  which,  being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered Accountants of  Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practise as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute.

Annual  Report

11.

(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of  the  body  corporate  for  each  financial  year  and  submit
such report together with the audited statement of accounts
certified  by  a  qualified  auditor,  to  the  Secretary  of  the
Ministry  of  the  Minister  assigned  the  subject  of

Pavithra  Wanniarachchi  Sahurda  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

9

Buddhasasana,  Religious  and  Cultural  Affairs  and  to  the
Registrar  of  Voluntary  Social  Service  Organizations
appointed under the Voluntary Social Service Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before
the expiration of six months of the year succeeding the year
to which such report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreign
and local moneys received by the body corporate during the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).

12. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  body  corporate  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to  and  subscriptions  and
contributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall be
paid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable  to
the  Foundation

13. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall be able and capable in
law to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentaty disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the body corporate for the purpose
of  this  Act  and  subject  to  the  rules  of  the  body  corporate
made under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Body  corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

14.  The  moneys  and  property  of  the  body  corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion  of  the  objects  of  the  body  corporate  and  no
portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  transferred  directly  or
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwise
howsoever to the members of the body corporate.

Application  of
moneys  and
property

10

Pavithra  Wanniarachchi  Sahurda  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

Seal  of  the  body
corporate

15.

(1)  The  Seal  of  the    body  corporate  shall  not  be
affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence
of two members of the Board who shall sign their names to
the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the  Board as may be decided by such
Board.

16.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  body  corporate
there  remains  after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be  distributed  among  the  members  of  the  body  corporate,
but  shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  any  other  appropriate
institution  having  objects  similar  to  those  of  the  body
corporate, and which is by the rules thereof,  prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its members.

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  subsection  (1),  the  appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at  a  general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic

17. Nothing  in this Act contained  shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
other body corporate.

Interpretation

18.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:–

“bank”  means  a  bank  licensed  under  the  provisions  of

the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;

“local authority ” shall have the same meaning assigned

to such expression in the Constitution;

Pavithra  Wanniarachchi  Sahurda  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

11

“public  corporation”  shall  have  the  same  meaning
assigned to such expression in the Constitution; and

“written law” shall have the same meaning assigned to

such expression in the Constitution.

19.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case  of
inconsistency

12

Pavithra  Wanniarachchi  Sahurda  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

