PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SOCIAL  SECURITY  CONTRIBUTION  LEVY
(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 15 OF 2024

[Certified on 20th of  March, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 22, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Social  Security  Contribution  Levy
(Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 2024

1

[Certified on 20th of March, 2024]

L.D.- O. 70/2023

AN ACT TO AMEND THE SOCIAL SECURITY CONTRIBUTION LEVY
ACT, NO. 25 OF 2022

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Social  Security

Short  title

Contribution Levy (Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 2024.

2.  Section  4  of  the  Social  Security  Contribution  Levy
Act, No. 25 of 2022 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended by the repeal of subsection
(1) thereof and the substitution therefor, of the following:-

Amendment  of
section  4  of  Act,
No.  25  of  2022

“4. (1) Every taxable person, other than a taxable
person referred to in paragraph (a) of section 2, who,
carries  on  or  carries  out  any  activity  referred  to  in
section 2 (in this Act referred to as a “taxable activity”)
shall  be  required  to  be  registered  under  this  Act  by
making  an  application  for  such  purpose  to  the
Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue (in this Act
referred  to  as  the  “Commissioner-General”)  in  the
specified form-

(a) not  later  than  fifteen  days  from  the  date  of
operation of this Act, in the case of a taxable
person  whose  aggregate  of  the  turnover,
within the twelve months period immediately
prior  to  the  date  of  operation  of  this  Act,
exceeded  one  hundred  and  twenty  million
rupees;

(b)

for any quarter commencing prior to January
1, 2024, not later than fifteen days from the
date on which the aggregate of the turnover
for a quarter exceeds or likely to exceed thirty
million rupees, in the case of a taxable person
to whom paragraph (a) does not apply;

2

Social  Security  Contribution  Levy
(Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 2024

(c)

for  any  period  commencing  on  or  after
January 1, 2024, not later than fifteen days
from the date on which the aggregate of the
turnover  for  a  quarter  exceeds  or  likely  to
exceed fifteen million rupees or from the date
on which the aggregate of the turnover for a
period of consecutive four quarters exceeds
or likely to exceed sixty million rupees:

Provided that, a taxable person to whom paragraph
(c) applies shall be deemed to have complied with the
requirement of registration under this subsection, if such
person  makes  an  application  for  such  purpose  to  the
Commissioner-General in the specified form not later
than  fifteen  days  from  the  date  of  operation  of  this
(Amendment) Act.”.

Amendment  of
section  5  of  the
principal
enactment

3. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amended

in subsection (1) thereof as follows:-

(1)

(2)

in paragraph (a) thereof, by the substitution for the
words and figure “in section 2; or”, of the words
and figure “in section 2;”;

in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitution for the
words “each immediately preceding four quarters
of  the  relevant  quarter  does  not  exceed  hundred
and twenty million rupees.”, of the words and figures
“each immediately preceding four quarters of the
relevant quarter prior to January 1, 2024, does not
exceed  hundred  and  twenty  million  rupees;  or”;

and

Social  Security  Contribution  Levy
(Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 2024

3

(3) by  the  addition  immediately  after  paragraph

(b) thereof, of the following:-

“(c)

for  any  period  commencing  on  or    after
January 1, 2024, the  aggregate  turnover  of
such    registered    person    for  a  period  of
consecutive  four  quarters  does not exceed
sixty million  rupees.”.

4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

4

Social  Security  Contribution  Levy
(Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

