THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of October 22, 2021

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 25.10.2021)

SHAILI  EDUTAINMENT  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Shaili Edutainment Foundation

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. (Dr.) (Ms.) Harini Amarasuriya, M. P.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Shaili  Edutainment  Foundation  (Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  SHAILI EDUTAINMENT FOUNDATION

WHEREAS  a  Foundation  called  and  known  as  the  “Shaili
Edutainment Foundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri
Lanka for the purpose of patronage and co-ordination of above
tasks  and  transacting  all  matters    connected  with  said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters for which it was established, and has applied to be
incorporated  and  it  will  be  expedient  to  grant  the  said
application  for  public  benifit;

AND WHEREAS it is expected to make youth and children
mentally  and  physically  fit,  having  capacity  to  show  the
identity  of  ancient  cultural  heritage  and  to  grow  higher
aesthetic education in the community through creative and
performing  activities;

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Shaili  Edutainment

Short  title

Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2021.

Incorporation
of  Shaili
Edutainment
Foundation

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the Shaili
Edutainment  Foundation  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
with  perpetual  succession,  under  the  name  and  style  of  the
“Shaili Edutainment Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Corporation”)  and by that name may sue and be sued,
with full power and  authority to have and use a common seal
and alter the same at its pleasure.

5

10

15

20

25

2

Shaili  Edutainment  Foundation  (Incorporation)

3.

(1) The general objects for which the Corporation is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

(a)

to  open  new  avenues  for  gaming  wisdom  and  to
assist  to  develop  the  personality  of  the  children,
elders  and  differently  abled  (Hearing  impaired,
visually  impaired,  mentally  and  physically
unsound) in Sri Lanka through the commencement,
promotion,  patronage  and  co-ordination  of
educational creative activities, vocational activities
and performing activities;

5

10

(b)

to  make  a  background  which  is  suitable  for  the
development of both mental and physical conditions
of the children, youth, elders and differently abled
as to fit to their requirements;

15

(c)

to  train  children,  youth  and  the  community  to
become  balanced  persons  who  are  contended  and
conversant  with  their  own  cultural  heritage  and
identity;

(d)

20

to establish peace among the multiple ethnic groups
in  Sri  Lanka  and  to  join  and  to  do  acts  in
collaboration  with  the  other  institutions  having
similar objects to those of the Corporation including
the  object  of  providing  facilities  in  order  to
exchange ideas, knowledge and experience;

25

(e)

30

to open a National Centre for studies in various fields
for  conducting  Research,  Professional  trainings,
workshops  and  for  improving  of  the  creative  and
professional performing skills. And either along or
in  collaboration  of  local  and  International
institution  (Approved  by  University  Grant
Commission ) award certificate, diploma and degrees
and prizes in connection therwewith;

HJ

Shaili  Edutainment  Foundation  (Incorporation)

3

(f)

to conserve the forklore, to organize the programmes
for exchanging of local and foreign knowledge and
experience which are essential the improvement of
knowledge of children, young and differently abled;
and

(g)

to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to attainment of the
above  objects.

4. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  or  any  other
written  law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of
the objects of the Corporation or any engage, employ and
dismiss, officers and servants required for the carrying out of
the objects of the Corporation.

General
powers  of  the
Corporation

5.

(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules  in  force  for  the  time  being  of  the  Corporation,  be
administered by a Management Council consisting of five
members as may be, provided for in the said rules who shall
be elected in accordance with such rules. The term of office
of the Management Council shall be two years.

Management
of  the
Corporation

(2) Three family members of the late Mr. Wimalasiri de
Mel,  the  Founder  of  this  Foundation,  shall  be  included  in
the above Management Council consisting five members.

(3) The first Management Council shall consist of the
members of the Management Council holding office on the
date of commencement of this Act. An elected or appointed
member  of  that  Management  Council  shall  hold  office  in
accordance with the rules for the time being.

5

10

15

20

25

30

6.

(1) Membership of the Corporation shall consist of

ordinary members and associate members.

Membership
of  the
Corporation

4

Shaili  Edutainment  Foundation  (Incorporation)

(2) However,  those  who  are  not  qualified  for  the
admission as ordinary members and associate members with
some privileges which may be stipulated by the Management
Council subject to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation, may be admitted as collective members;

5

(3) A  separate  register  shall  be  maintained  for  the
associate  members  and  notwithstanding  they  shall  not  be
qualified for casting votes at the meetings of the Corporation,
they shall enjoy some privileges as ordinary members do.

7.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time,  at  any  general  meeting  and  by  the  votes  of  not  less
than two thirds of the members who are qualified for casting
votes, to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act or any other written law for the management of the
affairs of the Corporation such as holding meetings, carrying
out its business at such meetings and preparation of Anual
Reports etc. and the accomplishment of its object.

(2) The  rules  of  the  Foundation  in  force  on  the  day
preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  operation  of  this
Act shall be deemed to be the rules of the Corporation made
under this section in so far as they are not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act or any other written law and such
rules when made in like manner under the subsection (1), be
altered, amended or rescinded.

10

15

20

25

(3) Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,
added  to,  amended  or  rescinded  in  like  manner  under
subsection (2).

(4) The members of Corporation shall always be dubject

to the rules of the Corporation.

30

8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law—

(a)

to  acquire  and  hold,  any  property,  movable  or
immovable which may be conveyed by way of any
purchase,  donation,  transfer  gift,  testamentary
disposition or to acquire or hold;

Rules  of  the
Corporation

Corporation
may  hold
movable  or
immovable
property

Shaili  Edutainment  Foundation  (Incorporation)

5

(b)

to construct a building in any immovable property
which was transferred to, acquired by or held by the
Corporation;  and

(c)

to sell, grant, transfer, mortgage, lease, exchange or
otherwise dispose of the same,

5

subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules in force for
the time being.

9.

It shall be lawful for the Corporation to change any
amount  of  fee  or  contribution  from  its  members  for  the
service, rendered by the Corporation as it deems fit.

10

10.

(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be

calendar year.

Power  to
charge
contribution
and  fees

Accounts  of
the
Corporation

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept  of  its  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.

15

(3) The  accounts  of  the  Corporation  shall  be  audited

by a qualified auditor.

(4)

In this connection “Qualified Auditor” means –

(a)

(b)

20

25

an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other  institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
such Institute; or

a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of  which  being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to  practice  as  an  Accountant  issued  by  such
Institute.

6

Shaili  Edutainment  Foundation  (Incorporation)

11. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts  due  to,  and  subscriptions  and  contributions  payable
to  the  Foundation  on  that  day  shall  be  paid  to  the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Foundation

12.

(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the
Board of Directors shall determine.

Fund  of  the
Corporation

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray and
expenditure  incurred  by  the  Corporation  in  the  exercise,
performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions
under this Act.

13. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for  any  other  purpose,  be  liable  to  make  any  contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.

Limitation  of
liability  of
members

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

14.

(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the  Corporation and which
is  or  are  by  the  rules  thereof  prohibited  from  distributing
any income or property among its or their  members. Such
institution or institutions shall be determined by the Board
at or immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Shaili  Edutainment  Foundation  (Incorporation)

7

15.

(1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman and a  member of the Board who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.

5

Seal  of  the
Corporation

16. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect  the  rights  of  the  Republic  or  of  anybody  politic  or
corporate or of any other person, except such are mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.

10

Saving  of  the
Rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

17.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

8

Shaili  Edutainment  Foundation  (Incorporation)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

