  THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC 
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
 SRI  LANKA

Part II of November 10, 2023

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 10.11.2023)

REGISTRATION OF DOCUMENTS (AMENDMENT)

A

BILL

 to amend the Registration of Documents Ordinance (Chapter 117)

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Finance, Economic Stabilization 
and National Policies 

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU,  COLOMBO  5

Price : Rs. 15'00 

Postage : Rs. 50'00

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

 
     
STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2 :  This clause amends section 8 of the Registration of Documents Ordinance (Chapter 

117) (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”), and the legal effect of the section as 

amended is to exclude any transaction which is subject to the provisions of the Secured Transactions 

Act, No.              of  2023 from the application of the provisions of the principal enactment.  

Clause 3 : This clause repeals Chapter IV of the principal enactment which contains provisions 

relating to registration of instruments creating security rights in movable property, as consequential    

to the enactment of the Secured Transactions Act, No.                of  2023 to make provisions applicable 

to secured transactions in movable property.

Clause 4 : This clause replaces the heading of Chapter V of the principal enactment limiting 

the application of that Chapter to instruments affecting land, as consequential    to the enactment 

of the Secured Transactions Act, No.             of  2023 to make provisions applicable to secured 

transactions in movable property.

Clause 5 : This clause amends section 25 of the principal enactment, and the legal effect of 

the section as amended is to limit the application of Chapter V of the principal enactment to the 

instruments affecting land, as consequential    to the enactment of the Secured Transactions Act,  

No.            of  2023 to make provisions applicable to secured transactions in movable property.

Clause 6 : This clause amends section 29 of the principal enactment, and it is consequential to 

the amendment made to section 25 of the principal enactment by clause 5 of this Bill.  

Clause 7 : This clause amends section 41 of the principal enactment, and it is consequential to 

the amendment made to section 25 of the principal enactment by clause 5 of this Bill.  

Clause 8 : This clause amends the First Schedule to the principal enactment, and it is consequential 

to the amendment made by clause 3 of this Bill.  

Clause 9 : This clause makes provisions in regard to the period of enforceability of instruments 

already registered under the Registration of Documents Ordinance and the requirement of registering 

those instruments under the Secured Transactions Act, No.              of   2023 upon coming into operation 

of the said Act in order for them to be further enforceable and for their priority to continue to prevail.

L.D.-O. 69/2017

An act to amend the registration of documents 

ordinance (chapter 117)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.    (1) This Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Registration  of 

Documents (Amendment) Act, No.    2023.

Short title 
and date of 
operation

5

(2)    The  provisions  of  this Act,  other  than  the 
provisions of this section, shall come into operation on such 
date as the Minister may appoint by Order published in the 
Gazette (in this Act referred to as the “appointed date”).

10

(3) The provisions of this section shall come into 
operation on the date on which the Bill becomes an Act of 
Parliament. 

15

20

2.  Section  8  of  the  Registration  of  Documents 
Ordinance  (Chapter  117)  (in  this Act  referred  to  as  the 
“principal enactment”) is hereby amended in the proviso to 
paragraph  (b)  of  that  section,  by  the  addition  immediately 
after sub paragraph (xi) of that proviso, of the following new 
subparagraph: -

Amendment 
of section 8 of 
Chapter 117

“(xii)   any agreement in relation to a transaction which 
is  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Secured 
Transactions Act, No.     of 2023.”.

3. Chapter IV of the principal enactment (sections 16 

to 24 both inclusive) is hereby repealed.

4. The heading of Chapter V of the principal enactment 
is hereby repealed and the following heading is substituted 
therefor: -

25

PL 014103 — 475 (10/2023)

Repeal of 
Chapter IV of 
the principal 
enactment

Replacement 
of the heading 
of Chapter 
V of the 
principal 
enactment

Registration of  Documents (Amendment)  
       
 
     
 
 
 
 
                      
2

“Chapter v
Provisions applicable to instruments affecting land’’.  

5.  Section  25  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby 
amended  by  the  substitution  for  the  words  “an  instrument 
affecting land or a pledge, mortgage or bill of sale.”, of the 
words “an instrument affecting land.”.

5

Amendment of 
section 25 of 
the principal 
enactment 

6.  Section  29  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby 

amended as follows:-

Amendment of 
section 29 of 
the principal 
enactment

10

15

20

25

(1)   in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution 
for  the  words  “which  affects  land  or  movable 
property”, of the words “which affects land”; and

(2)   by the repeal of the marginal note to that section 
and  the  substitution  therefor,  of  the  following 
marginal note: -

“Land situated
  in several 
  districts.”.

7.  Section  41  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby 
amended  by  the  substitution  for  the  words  “instruments 
affecting land and pledges, mortgages or bills of sale registered 
by him”, of the words “instruments affecting land registered 
by him”.

Amendment of 
section 41 of 
the principal 
enactment

8.  The  First  Schedule  to  the  principal  enactment  is 
hereby amended in Part III of that Schedule, by the substitution 
in item 2 thereof, for the words and figures “any book or index 
kept under Chapters III, IV, V, VI, for each transaction” of the 
words and figures “any book or index kept under Chapter III, 
V or VI for each transaction”.

Amendment 
of the First 
Schedule to 
the principal 
enactment

Registration of  Documents (Amendment)  
 
 
 
            
 
                 
 
 
 
 
 
Enforceability 
of instruments 
registered 
under Chapter 
IV of the 
principal 
enactment

   9.    (1) Where,  on  the  appointed  date,  an  instrument 

creating-

3

(a) a pledge, mortgage or bill of sale of movable 

property; or

   (b)  (i)  an  interest  in  a  fixture  of  any  immovable                     

property; or

          (ii) an assignment of a right to payment under a    
mortgage, charge or lease of any immovable 
property  where  the  assignment  does  not 
convey  or  transfer  the  assignor’s  interest 
in the immovable property,

which has been registered under Chapter IV of the principal 
enactment, is in force, such pledge, mortgage or bill of sale of 
movable property or such interest in a fixture of immovable 
property  or  such  assignment  of  a  right  to  payment  under 
a  mortgage,  charge  or  lease  of  immovable  property  shall, 
for a period of two years from the appointed date, continue 
to  be  enforceable,  but  shall  be  required  to  be  registered 
under  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Secured  Transactions                       
Act, No.              of  2023 as a pledge, mortgage or bill of sale 
of movable property, or an interest in a fixture of immovable 
property  or  an  assignment  of  a  right  to  payment  under  a 
mortgage,  charge  or  lease  of  immovable  property  prior  to 
the expiration of such period of two years.

                (2)  An  instrument  referred  to  in  subsection  (1) 
shall,  on  being  registered  under  the  Secured  Transactions                          
Act, No.             of  2023, be deemed to have been perfected 
from  the  date  on  which  such  instrument  initially  became 
legally enforceable, and the priority which such instrument 
became  entitled  to  at  the  time  it  initially  became  legally 
enforceable, shall continue to prevail.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Registration of  Documents (Amendment)  
 
4

        (3) An instrument referred to in subsection (1) which 
is not registered under the Secured Transactions Act, No.    of 
2023 prior to the expiration of two years from the appointed 
date, shall become legally unenforceable after the expiration 
of such period.

5

10.  In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the 
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall 
prevail.

Sinhala text 
to prevail 
in case of 
inconsistency

Registration of  Documents (Amendment)  
Printed at the Department of  Government Printing

