PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

————————

PETROLEUM  RESOURCES

A

BILL

to provide for, the establishment of the Petroleum Development Authority
of Sri Lanka; the formulation of a National Policy on Upstream Petroleum
Industry and regulation and management structure capturing the maximum
economic  value  of  Domestic  Petroleum  Resources  through  modern
exploration,  development,  production  and  management  practices  in
Sri Lanka; to repeal the Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 2003; and to
 provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto

————————

Presented by the Minister of Energy on 05th of August 2021

(Published in the Gazette on July 27, 2021)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

[Bill No. 66]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 60.00

Postage : Rs. 35.00

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Petroleum Resources

1

L.D. —O. 02/2008 (II)

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR, THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PETROLEUM
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA; THE FORMULATION OF A
NATIONAL POLICY ON UPSTREAM PETROLEUM INDUSTRY AND
REGULATION AND MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE CAPTURING THE MAXIMUM
ECONOMIC VALUE OF DOMESTIC PETROLEUM RESOURCES THROUGH
MODERN  EXPLORATION,  DEVELOPMENT,  PRODUCTION  AND
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES IN SRI LANKA; TO REPEAL THE PETROLEUM
RESOURCES ACT, NO. 26 OF 2003; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OF INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.

(1) This Act may be cited as the Petroleum Resources

Act, No.  of 2021.

Short  title
and  date  of
operation

5

(2) All the provisions of this Act, other than the provisions
of Part V, shall come into operation on the date on which the
certificate of the speaker is endorsed in respect of this Act in
terms of Article 79 of the Constitution.

10

(3) The provisions of Part V of this Act shall come into
operation  on  such  date  as  the  Minister  may,  by  Order
published in the Gazette, appoint for such purpose.

2. The objects of the Act shall be-

Objects  of
the  Act

(a) to  establish  a  Policy  Advisory  Committee  to
advise on formulation of a National Policy for
the  upstream  petroleum  industry  covering  the
exploration,  development,  production,  and
management  of  all  petroleum  resources  in  Sri
Lanka;

(b) to  provide  the  legal  framework  to  regulate  all
processes  of  the  exploration,  development,

15

20

2

Petroleum Resources

5

10

15

production  and  management  of  all  petroleum
resources in Sri Lanka including the provision
of  operational  guidelines;

(c) to  establish  an  independent,  efficient,  and
transparent regulatory framework in relation to
the  exploration,  development,  production  and
management  of  petroleum  resources  in  Sri
Lanka;

(d) to manage the available petroleum resources in
an  equitable,  safe,  and  environmentally
sustainable manner; and

(e) to design, implement, monitor and revise fiscal
regimes that meet evolving economic needs of
the  country  while  providing  fiscal  stability  to
contractors.

PART I

PETROLEUM DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA

3.

(1) There shall be established an Authority to be called
and known as the "Petroleum Development Authority of Sri
Lanka" (hereinafter referred to as the "Authority").

20

(2)  The  Authority  shall,  by  the  name  assigned  to  it  by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
its corporate name.

Establishment
of  the
Petroleum
Development
Authority  of
Sri  Lanka

25

(3) The Authority shall be responsible for –

(a) making  recommendations  in  respect  of  the
National  Policy  on  Upstream  Petroleum
Industry to the Policy Advisory Committee;

(b)  implementing the provisions of the Act; and

Petroleum Resources

3

(c) performing all regulatory functions connected
to  the  upstream  petroleum  industry  in  Sri
Lanka, in the manner provided for in the Act.

4. The  powers,  duties  and  functions  of  the  Authority

5

shall be-

Powers,
duties  and
functions  of
the  Authority

10

15

20

(a) to prepare a map dividing the onshore and offshore
areas  into  graticular  sections  to  demarcate  and
designate  exploration  blocks  and  development
blocks  and  to  define  and  demarcate  areas  to  be
designated for joint studies;

(b) to  promote  and  market  acreage  available  for
investment  in  the  blocks  as  demarcated  and
designated in terms of section 16;

(c) to  negotiate  with  contractors  the  terms  and
conditions  incorporated  into  each  Petroleum
Resources  Agreement,  where  necessary,  in
consultation  with  the  Negotiating  Committee
appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers;

(d) to issue all licences and certificates required to be
issued in terms of this Act and to cancel, suspend,
vary or amend the same;

(e) to determine and charge the licence fee for licences

issued in terms of this Act;

(f) to issue such directions and guidelines as may be

25

required to regulate petroleum operations;

(g) to enter into all agreements relating to the upstream
petroleum industry, such as agreements pertaining
to data acquisition, licensing and management of
data;

4

Petroleum Resources

(h) to make recommendations to the Minister on matters
relating  to  the  assignment  or  transfer  of  a
contractor’s  participating  interest  in  a  Petroleum
Resources  Agreement,  on  such  terms  and
conditions in keeping with the objects of this Act;

5

(i) to  provide  all 

infrastructural  and  other
administrative support as is required in the process
of calling for, evaluation of and awarding of bids;

(j) to employ such staff as is required for the Authority

10

to achieve the objects of this Act;

(k) to  perform  competent  and  responsible  regulation
of  an  internationally  competitive  upstream
petroleum  industry;

(l) to acquire and hold, take or give on lease or hire,
mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of, any
movable or immovable property;

(m) to accept grants, gifts or donations from persons or
bodies of persons within or outside Sri Lanka:

Provided  that,  notwithstanding  anything  to  the
contrary  in  any  other  provisions  of  this  Act,  the
Authority shall obtain prior written approval of the
Department of External Resources in respect of all
foreign grants, gifts or donations in cash;

(n) to open and maintain accounts, including in foreign
currencies, in any bank or financial institution as
approved  by  the  Board,  and  to  administer  the
Petroleum Resources Development Fund in terms
of this Act;

(o) to  issue  such  guidelines  and  directions  as  are
required for efficient and effective management of
petroleum  operations  and,  for  management  of
petroleum operations in the event of a disaster;

15

20

25

30

Petroleum Resources

5

(p) to  monitor  and  control  activities  which  are
necessary for or conducive or incidental to, achieve
the objects of this Act; and

5

(q) to do all such other acts and things which may be
conducive  or  incidental  to,  the  attainment  of  the
objects of this Act.

PART II

ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE AUTHORITY

10

5.

(1) The administration, management and control of
the  affairs  of  the  Authority  shall  be  vested  in  a  Board  of
Directors (in this Act referred to as the "Board").

Constitution
of  the
Board  of
Directors

(2) The Board shall, for the purpose of administering the
affairs of the Authority, exercise, perform and discharge the
powers,  duties  and  functions  conferred  on,  assigned  to  or
imposed on, the Authority by this Act.

15

(3) The Board shall consist of-

(a)

the ex-officio members namely–

20

25

(i) the Director-General of the Authority;

(ii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned  the  subject  of  Finance  or  his
representative;

(iii) the Director -General of the Public Utilities
Commission of Sri Lanka or his nominee;

(iv) the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister assigned the subject of Petroleum
Resources or his representative not below
the  rank  of  Additional  Secretary  of  the
Ministry;  and

6

Petroleum Resources

(v) the Chairman of the Marine Environment
Protection  Authority  established  under
section  2  of  the  Marine  Pollution
Prevention  Act,  No.  35  of  2008  or  his
nominee;  and

(b)

four  members  appointed  by  the  Minister
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  "appointed
members")  from  among  persons  who  have
achieved  eminence  in  the  field  of  upstream
petroleum industry, whose qualifications shall
be prescribed.

5

10

(4)  The  members  appointed  under  paragraph  (b)  of
subsection (3) of this section shall be approved by the Cabinet
of Ministers.

15

6.

(1) The Minister shall appoint one of the appointed

members to be the Chairperson of the Board.

Chairperson
of  the  Board

(2) The Chairperson may resign from his office by letter
addressed  to  the  Minister  and  such  resignation  shall  be
effective  from  the  date  on  which  it  is  accepted  by  the
Minister.

20

(3) The Minister may for reasons assigned therefor remove

the Chairperson from the office of the Chairperson.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),
the term of office of the Chairperson shall be the period of
his membership of the Board.

25

(5)  Where  the  Chairperson  is  temporarily  unable  to
exercise,  perform  and  discharge  the  powers,  duties  and
functions  of  his  office  due  to  ill  health,  other  infirmity,
absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may
appoint any other appointed member to act as the Chairperson
in addition to his normal duties as an appointed member.

30

Petroleum Resources

7

7. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed

as a member of the Board, if he-

(a) is  or  becomes  a  member  of  the  Parliament,  any

Provincial Council or any local authority;

Disqualifications
for  being
appointed  as
a  member  of
the  Board

5

(b) is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c) is a person who, having been declared an insolvent
or a bankrupt under any law in Sri Lanka or in any
other  country,  is  an  undischarged  insolvent  or
bankrupt;

10

(d) is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other
country found or declared to be of unsound mind;

(e) is convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude
and punishable with imprisonment for a term not
less than six months;

15

(f) is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment
imposed by a court of Sri Lanka or any other country;

 (g) holds  or  enjoys  any  right  or  benefit  under  any
contract made by, or on behalf of the Authority; or

 (h) has  any  financial  or  other  interest  as  is  likely  to
affect  prejudicially  the  discharge  by  him  of  his
functions as a member of the Board.

8. Every appointed member of the Board shall, unless
he vacates office earlier by death, resignation or removal,
hold office for a period of three years from the date of his
appointment and unless removed from office shall be eligible
for  re-appointment  for  not  more  than  one  further  term,
whether consecutive or otherwise.

Terms  of
office  of  the
appointed
members  of
the  Board

20

25

8

Petroleum Resources

9.

(1)Any appointed member of the Board may at any
time, resign his office by letter in that behalf addressed to
the Minister, and such resignation shall take effect from the
date on which the resignation is accepted in writing by the
Minister.

Removal,
resignation
etc.  of
appointed
members

(2)  The  Minister  may,  for  reasons  assigned  therefor
remove any appointed member from office. An appointed
member  who  has  been  removed  from  office  shall  not  be
eligible for re-appointment as a member of the Board or to
serve the Board in any other capacity.

(3)  In  the  event  of  the  vacation  of  office  by  death,
resignation  or  removal  of  any  appointed  member,  the
Minister  shall  subject  to  the  provisions  of  section  5(3)(b)
appoint another person to fill such vacancy and such person
shall  hold  office  for  the  un-expired  period  of  the  term  of
office of the member whom he succeeds.

(4)  Where  any  appointed  member  of  the  Board  is
temporarily  unable  to  perform  the  duties  of  his  office  on
account of ill health or any other cause or if he is absent from
Sri  Lanka  for  a  period  of  not  less  than  three  months,  the
Minister  shall  subject  to  the  provisions  of  section  5(3)(b)
appoint  any  other  person  to  act  in  place  of  such  member
during his absence.

(5) Where any appointed member of the Board fails to
attend  three  consecutive  meetings  of  the  Board  without
notifying his absence in advance to the  Chairperson, such
member shall be deemed to have vacated his office and the
Minister shall appoint another person to fill such vacancy
subject to the provisions of section 5(3)(b).

5

10

15

20

25

30

10.

(1) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall
be  five  members  including  the  Chairperson  and  two  ex-
officio members.

Quorum  and
the  Meetings
of  the  Board

(2) The Director- General shall summon all meetings of

the Board.

Petroleum Resources

9

(3) A meeting of the Board may be held either-

(a)  by  the  number  of  members  who  constitute  a
quorum being assembled at the place, date and
time appointed for the meeting; or

(b)  by  means  of  audio  -  visual  communication  by
which  all  members  participating  and
constituting  a  quorum  can  simultaneously  see
and  hear  each  participating  member  for  the
duration of the meeting.

(4) All questions for decision at any meeting of the Board
shall  be  decided  by  the  vote  of  the  majority  of  members
present and voting at such meeting. In the case of an equality
of votes, the Chairperson shall, in addition to his vote, have
a casting vote.

(5) The Chairperson shall preside at every meeting of the
Board. In the absence of the Chairperson from any meeting
of the Board, any member elected by the members present
shall preside at such meeting of the Board.

5

10

15

20

(6) The meetings of the Authority shall be conducted in
conformity with the rules made and procedure established,
by it from time to time.

11. The Board may act, notwithstanding any vacancy
among its members, and any act or proceeding of the Board
shall not be, or deemed to be, invalid by reason only of the
existence of any vacancy among its members or any defect
in the appointment of a member thereof.

25

12.

(1) The seal of the Authority–

(a) shall be in the custody of such person as the

Board may decide from time to time;

Acts  or
proceedings
of  the  Board
deemed  not
to  be  invalid
by  reason  of
any  vacancy

Seal  of  the
Authority

10

Petroleum Resources

(b) may  be  altered  in  such  manner  as  may  be

determined by the Board;

(c) shall  not  be  affixed  to  any  instrument  or
document  except  with  the  sanction  of  the
Board and in the presence of two members of
the  Board  who  shall  sign  the  instrument  or
document in token of their presence.

5

(2) The Board shall maintain a register of the instruments
and documents to which the seal of the Authority has been
affixed.

10

PART III

OWNERSHIP OF PETROLEUM RESOURCES AND PETROLEUM DATA AND
FORMULATION OF NATIONAL POLICY ON UPSTREAM PETROLEUM INDUSTRY

13.

(1) The absolute ownership of all petroleum resources

15

occurring  naturally–

(a) within the sub–surface of the land area of Sri Lanka; or

(b) on  or  below  the  seabed,  the  sub  soil  of  the
submarine  areas  of  Sri  Lanka’s  internal  waters,
historic  waters,  territorial  sea,  contiguous  zone,
exclusive  economic  zone,  and  continental  shelf
established  in  terms  of  the  United  Nations
Convention on the Law of the Sea, including the
Statement of Understanding contained in Annex II
to the Final Act of the said Convention,

shall vest in the State, notwithstanding any right, ownership
or otherwise which any person has to the soil below which
such petroleum resources are found.

(2) The  ownership  of  all  petroleum  data  obtained  or
prepared pursuant to any petroleum operation in Sri Lanka
shall be vested in the State and the management and control
of such petroleum data shall be vested with the Authority.

20

25

30

Ownership  of
petroleum
resources  and
Petroleum
data

Petroleum Resources

11

(3) The Authority may issue a licence permitting access
to  the  petroleum  data  for  the  commercial,  educational  or
scientific use by any person subject to the procedure and the
fees as may be prescribed.

 14.

(1) The Minister shall appoint a Policy Advisory
Committee, in consultation with the Authority comprising
experts  in  the  fields  of  industry,  commerce,  law  and  any
other subject to advise on formulating National Policy on
Upstream Petroleum Industry.

Policy
Advisory
Committee

(2) Upon the advice of the Policy Advisory Committee,
the Minister may call for further information as necessary
and he shall provide instructions to formulate the National
Policy  on  Upstream  Petroleum  Industry  embodying  inter
alia the guiding principles, actions and plans set out therein,
and  the  cumulative  process  to  be  followed  in  relation  to
regulating  the  exploration,  development,  production  and
management of indigenous petroleum resources.

5

10

15

(3)  The  Minister  shall  thereafter  submit  the  National
Policy  on  Upstream  Petroleum  Industry  to  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers for its approval.

20

(4) The National Policy on Upstream Petroleum Industry
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as
from the date of such disapproval.

25

(5) Upon the approval granted by the Cabinet of Ministers
under  subsection  (3),  such  National  Policy  shall  be  the
National Policy on Upstream Petroleum Industry.

(6)  (a)  The  National  Policy  on  Upstream  Petroleum
Industry may be reviewed by the Policy Advisory Committee
whenever it requires to do so.

30

(b) Such National Policy on Upstream Petroleum Industry
may, on the advice of the Policy Advisory Committee, be
amended or varied by the Minister to incorporate any new

12

Petroleum Resources

developments in petroleum resource management practices
or  processes  including  the  technological  and  commercial
developments,  whether  local  or  global  pertaining  to  the
upstream petroleum industry.

5

(c) Every such amendment or variation shall be carried
out  in  accordance  with  the  procedure  specified  in  this
section.

(7) The members of the Policy Advisory Committee shall
be remunerated on such terms and at such rates as shall be
determined by the Minister in consultation with the Minister
assigned the subject of Finance.

10

(8) It shall be the duty of every stakeholder to comply
with the National Policy on Upstream Petroleum Industry.

15

20

25

PART IV

DEMARCATION AND DESIGNATION OF BLOCKS OR AREAS, ENTERING INTO
PETROLEUM RESOURCES AGREEMENT OR JOINT STUDY AGREEMENT AND
 GRANT OF EXPLORATION LICENCES ETC.

 15. A person shall not conduct any petroleum operation
in  Sri  Lanka,  unless  such  person  has  entered  into  an
agreement in the form of a Petroleum Resources Agreement
or a Joint Study Agreement in terms of this Act.

16.

(1) The Minister may for the purposes of this Act,
within both offshore and onshore areas identified as having
petroleum potential and which are to be offered to conduct
petroleum  operations  or  study  or  research  projects  to  any
contractor,  authorize  the  Authority  to  demarcate  and
designate  blocks  which  shall  be  called  exploration  blocks
or development blocks as the case may be.

Petroleum
Resources
Agreement
or  Joint
Study
Agreement

Demarcation
and
designation
of
exploration
blocks  or
development
blocks

Petroleum Resources

13

(2)  The  designation  of  exploration  blocks  or
developments blocks shall be  based on the maps prepared
by  the  Authority  under  section  4(a)  of  this  Act  and  be
identified as follows:-

5

(a) if situated offshore, be identified with reference to

the area having petroleum potential; or

(b) if situated onshore, be identified with reference to
the  Administrative  District  within  which  it  is
situated.

10

15

20

(3)  Each  graticular  section  called  an  exploration  block
shall  be  given  a  unique  reference  number  which  shall  be
called  as  the  "block  identifier".  Such  exploration  blocks
may  be  grouped  together  into  larger  blocks,  designated
uniquely, if so desired.

(4)  Upon  an  exploration  block  being  designated  under
subsection  (1),  the  Authority  shall  obtain  the  approval  of
the Minister to publish the same in a manner prescribed by
regulation.

17. The  Authority  shall,  from  time  to  time,  call  for
investment proposals locally or internationally, for exploring
or  developing  identified  onshore  or  offshore  blocks  in
conformity with the procedure approved by the Cabinet of
Ministers and prescribed by regulation.

Calling  of
proposals  for
the  conduct
of  petroleum
operations  in
respect  of
defined
exploration
blocks

25

18.

(1)  A  contractor  shall  enter  into  a  Petroleum
Resources Agreement in conformity with the provisions of
this Act and any other manner prescribed by regulation.

Petroleum
Resources
Agreement

(2)  Where  the  circumstances  of  an  exploration  block
requires any concern related to security, environment, social,
cultural  and  archaeological  matter,  such  matters  may  be
included  in  the  Petroleum  Resources  Agreement.  The

30

14

Petroleum Resources

negotiated terms and conditions of the Petroleum Resources
Agreement may differ subjected to such concerns along with
economic  and  technical  considerations  pertinent  to  each
exploration  block.

5

(3) The contractor shall, upon entering into a Petroleum
Resources Agreement, apply for and obtain an Exploration
Licence prior to commencing petroleum operations.

(4)  The  contractor  upon  the  receipt  of  the  Exploration
Licence shall have the exclusive rights to carry out petroleum
operations in the manner set out in the relevant Petroleum
Resources Agreement.

10

19.

(1) The Authority may define and demarcate areas
to  be  designated  for  joint  studies,  and  may  entertain
proposals  thereto  from  any  person  that  the  Board  deems
suitable  based  on  his  experience,  reputation  and  financial
capability.

Joint  Study
Agreement

(2) The Authority shall submit the proposed Joint Study
Agreement  for  the  consideration  of  the  Minister,  and  the
Minister  shall,  upon  being  satisfied  with  the  terms  and
conditions  of  the  Joint  Study  Agreement,  enter  into  Joint
Study Agreement in conformity with the procedures as may
be prescribed and submit the same for the information of the
Cabinet of Ministers.

20.

(1)Where a contractor discovers petroleum resources
in commercially viable quantities in the course of conducting
petroleum  operations  within  an  exploration  block,  such
contractor shall-

Development
Licence

(a)

forthwith inform the Authority of such discovery
and conduct or cause to be conducted the required
tests for the purpose of determining whether such
discovery merits appraisal; and

15

20

25

30

Petroleum Resources

15

(b) submit a programme of work designed to appraise
the petroleum potential of the designated area for
approval of the Authority.

5

(2) In the event that the appraisal discloses the existence
of a commercially viable quantity of petroleum resources,
the  Authority  may  proceed  to  declare  the  discovery  as
commercially viable in the manner prescribed by regulation.

(3)  The  contractor  shall,  having  considered  the
circumstances and the extent of the commercial discovery
declared in terms of subsection (2), submit to the Authority
a Development and Investment Plan which shall comprise–

10

(a) such matters as may be prescribed; and

(b) the proposal of the contractor for the development
and production of the commercial discovery within
the  exploration  block,

15

within such period as may be determined by the Board.

(4) Where the quantity of petroleum resources declared
to be a commercial discovery in terms of subsection (2) is
located  within  the  exploration  block  or  within  more  than
one exploration blocks, the Authority may–

20

(a) on  the  basis  of  the  Development  and  Investment

Plan submitted by the contractor; and

(b) if located within more than one exploration block
and  if  no  agreement  has  been  entered  into  with
other  contractors  in  respect  of  such  other
exploration  blocks,

issue a Development Licence substantially in the format as
may  be  prescribed  to  a  contractor  in  respect  of  the  area
comprising the full extent of the discovery, subject to the
terms  and  conditions  set  out  in  the  Development  Licence
and to the requirements set out in the Petroleum Resources
Agreement.

25

30

16

Petroleum Resources

(5)  When  obtaining  the  Development  Licence,  a
contractor shall pay a surface rental in such amount as shall
be  determined  by  the  Authority  taking  into  consideration
the  specific  extent  assigned  for  development  under  the
relevant Development Licence.

21.

(1)The  contractor  may  apply  for  transfer  or
assignment  of  a  participating  interest  in  a  Petroleum
Resources Agreement, Exploration Licence or Development
Licence as the case may be, to the Authority and the Authority
may  submit  the  same  with  its  recommendation  to  the
Minister,  who  shall  submit  such  application  and  the
recommendation  of  the  Authority  for  the  approval  of  the
Cabinet of Ministers.

Transfer  or
assignment
of  a
participating
interest

(2)  The  contractor  shall,  subject  to  such  terms  and
conditions as may be imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers,
have  the  right  to  transfer  or  assign  any  or  all  of  his
participating  interest.

(3)  Upon  the  receipt  of  the  decision  of  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers  on  an  application  made  under  subsection  (1),  it
shall  be  the  duty  of  the  Authority,  to  communicate  such
decision to the contractor making the application.

(4) The transfer or assignment of participating interest in
a Petroleum Resources Agreement, Exploration Licence or
Development Licence shall be as prescribed by regulation.

5

10

15

20

25

22. Any  person  having  a  participating  interest  in  the
designated area to which the Petroleum Resources Agreement
applies, shall be responsible–

30

(a) for  ensuring  that  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  any
regulations  made  thereunder,  the  terms  and
conditions  of  the  relevant  Petroleum  Resources
Agreement,  the  Exploration  Licence,  the
Development  Licence  or  the  Unit  Development
Licence,  and  the  directions  and  guidelines  are
complied with; and

Responsibility
of  persons
with  a
participating
interest

Petroleum Resources

17

(b) for liabilities to any injury or damage caused to a

third person.

5

23. A person shall not carry on the business of a provider
of goods or services to a contractor with respect to upstream
petroleum  operations  of  a  relevant  Petroleum  Resources
Agreement or for, or on behalf of a contractor (hereinafter
referred  to  as  the  "service  provider")  except  under  the
authority of a licence issued by the Authority. The procedure
and fee for the issue of licence shall be prescribed.

Licensing  of
service
providers

10

24.

(1) Where a petroleum reservoir which is capable of

being  commercially  developed–

Unit
Development
Plan

(a) straddles two or more exploration blocks; or

(b) covers an area which is regulated by two or more

Development Licences,

15

20

25

30

the Authority shall, for securing more efficient commercial
development  of  the  petroleum  reservoir  situated  therein,
require  the  contractors  having  an  interest  in  the  entire
reservoir or such portion of such blocks as the case may be,
to jointly submit to the Authority a Unit Development Plan
which shall comprise such matters as shall be specified by
the  Authority  and  such  other  matters  which  may  in  the
circumstances be required for the more efficient commercial
development thereof.

(2) The Authority shall, upon a consideration of the Unit
Development  Plan  submitted  to  it  under  subsection  (1),
recommend such Unit Development Plan with amendments
required if necessary, to the Minister for approval.

(3)  After  obtaining  an  approval  of  the  Minister  under
subsection  (2),  the  Authority  shall  notify  the  contractors
who  submitted  the  Unit  Development  Plan,  that  the
Development Licence issued to such contractors shall cease
to  be  effective  from  the  date  of  such  notification  and  be

18

Petroleum Resources

converted to an Unit Development Licence authorising the
conduct  of  joint  petroleum  operations  within  the  area  to
which the Unit Development Plan relates, under the terms
and conditions as may be prescribed.

PART V

NATIONAL PETROLEUM OPERATOR

25.

(1) There shall be incorporated under the Companies
Act, No.7 of 2007, a separate corporate entity for the purpose
of managing interests of the State in respect of all aspects of
petroleum resources development (in this Act referred to as
the "National Petroleum Operator") and the Minister shall
by Order published in the Gazette, designate it as the National
Petroleum Operator.

Minister  to
designate  a
body  of
persons  to  be
the  National
Petroleum
Operator

(2) The National Petroleum Operator shall-

(a) hold  the  participating  interest  of  the  State  in  any
joint venture and manage the share of the State of
the petroleum produced;

(b) be jointly and severally liable with all other holders
of  participating  interest  to  comply  with  the
requirements  of  the  Petroleum  Resources
Agreement and the terms and conditions set out in
any Exploration Licence or Development Licence
or  Unit  Development  Licence  issued  by  the
Authority to the joint venture; and

5

10

15

20

25

(c)  be liable severally not jointly, for the debts of other

holders of participating interest.

26. The  State  may,  through  the  National  Petroleum
Operator,  hold  a  participating  interest  as  specified  in  the
relevant Petroleum Resources Agreement.

Extent  of
State’s
participating
interest

Petroleum Resources

19

PART VI

FISCAL PROVISIONS

5

10

15

20

25

27. Every  Petroleum  Resources  Agreement  shall  be
approved  by  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  including  the  fiscal
provisions and the production sharing mechanism between
the contractor and the State, as shall be negotiated by the
Authority.

Terms  as  to
production
sharing

28. A mechanism of fiscal stability for any Petroleum
Resources  Agreement  aimed  at  mutually  preserving  the
original project economic commitments, shall be provided
within such Petroleum Resources Agreement.

Fiscal
stability

29. The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of
2017  shall  be  applicable  to  the  revenue  of  the  contractor
from any upstream operations unless otherwise specified in
the Petroleum Resources Agreement.

Determination
of  profits  and
income

PART VII

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY

30.

(1) There shall be a Director-General of the Authority
appointed by the Minister and approved by the Cabinet of
Ministers who shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the
Authority.

Appointment
of  a  Director-
General  of
the  Authority

(2)  The  Director-  General  shall,  subject  to  the  general
directions and control of the Board, be responsible for the
conduct  of  all  affairs  of  the  Authority,  including  the
administrative control of the staff of the Authority.

(3) The Director-General of the Authority shall possess
such  qualifications  and  experience  as  prescribed  by
regulation.

Powers,
duties  and
functions  of
the  Director-
General

20

Petroleum Resources

(4)  The  Director-General  shall  be  charged  with  the
responsibility  of  ensuring  that  the  powers,  duties  and
functions  assigned  to  the  Director-General  be  exercised,
performed and discharged in accordance with the provisions
of this Act and any regulations made thereunder.

5

(5)  The  Director-General  shall  be  responsible  and
answerable to the Board in the exercise, performance and
discharge of his powers, duties and functions assigned under
subsection (4).

10

31. The powers, duties and functions of the Director-

General shall be –

15

20

25

30

(a) to  maintain  all  related  registers,  maps  and  other
records in respect of each block or area in respect of
which  a  Petroleum  Resources  Agreement,  an
Exploration  License,  a  Joint  Study  Agreement,  a
Development  License  or  a  Unit  Development
License has been issued under this Act;

(b) to prepare draft Petroleum Resources Agreements
on  a  case  by  case  basis,  in  accordance  with  such
directions as may be issued from time to time by
the Authority in that regard;

(c) to collect, compile, analyze and publish or cause to
be  collected,  compiled,  analyzed  and  published,
geological, geophysical, engineering and economic
data pertaining to the available petroleum resources
of  Sri  Lanka  and  to  ensure  the  recognition  of
intellectual  property  rights;

(d) to formulate guidelines for technical evaluation of

geological  samples;

(e) to  monitor  petroleum  operations  conducted  by
contractors in Sri Lanka and to examine and inspect
all books, records, reports, accounts, samples and
data  maintained  (whether  in  electronic  format  or
otherwise) by such contractors;

Petroleum Resources

21

5

10

(f) to  require  a  contractor  to  whom  a  Exploration
Licence,  a  Development  Licence  or  a  Unit
Development Licence as the case may be has been
issued, by notice in writing, to furnish such return
or information as the Authority considers necessary
for the due discharge of its functions;

(g) to  measure  quantities  of  petroleum  resources
recovered in Sri Lanka and to take samples thereof;

(h) to  approve  the  annual  work  programmes  and
budgets  submitted  by  contractors  in  terms  of  a
Petroleum Resources Agreement;

(i) to discharge all regulatory functions relating to any

Petroleum Resources Agreement;

(j) to charge fees or any other payments for any services

15

provided by the Authority;

(k) to  retain  consultants  and  expert  advisors,  when
necessary,  subject  to  the  approval  of  the  Board,
and implement such capacity building measures as
are necessary; and

(l) to  conduct  activities  which  are  necessary  for,  or
conducive or incidental to, the carrying out of the
functions of the Authority.

32.

(1)  The  Authority  shall  employ  such  staff  as  is
required for the efficient exercise and discharge of the powers
and functions assigned to the Authority, including technical
and  skilled  personnel,  administrative  and  managerial
personnel and such other persons as it may require.

Staff  of  the
Authority
and
remuneration

(2) The Director-General and staff of the Authority shall
be remunerated in such manner and at such rates, and shall
be subject to such conditions of service, as may be prescribed
by the Minister in consultation with the Minister in charge
of the subject of Finance.

20

25

30

22

Petroleum Resources

33.

(1) At the request of the Authority any officer in the
public service may, with the consent of that officer and the
Public  Service  Commission,  be  temporarily  appointed  to
the  staff  of  the  Authority  for  such  period  as  may  be
determined  by  the  Authority  or  with  like  consent  be
permanently appointed to the staff of the Authority.

Appointment
of  public
officers  to
the  staff  of
the  Authority

(2) Where any officer is temporarily appointed to the staff
of the Authority, the provisions of subsection (2) of section
14  of  the  National  Transport  Commission  Act,  No.  37  of
1991,  shall, mutatis  mutandis,  apply  to,  and  in  relation  to
him.

(3)  Where  any  officer  is  permanently  appointed  to  the
staff  of  the  Authority,  the  provisions  of  subsection  (3)  of
section 14 of the National Transport Commission Act, No.
37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis apply to, and in relation
to him.

(4)  Where  the  Authority  employs  any  person,  who  has
entered  into  a  contract  with  the  Government  by  which  he
has agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,
any period of service with the Authority by that person shall
be regarded as service to the Government, for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of such contract.

34.

(1) At the request of the Board, any officer or other
employee of any higher educational institution established
under the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 may, with the
consent  of  that  officer  or  the  employee  and  the  principal
executive officer of that higher educational institution, be
temporarily  appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Authority.  Such
appointment shall be for a period as may be determined by
the Board or with like consent be permanently appointed to
such  staff,  on  such  terms  and  conditions,  including  those
relating to pension or provident fund rights, as may be agreed
upon by the Board and such principal executive officer.

Appointment
of  officers
from  higher
educational
institutions  to
the  Authority

5

10

15

20

25

30

Petroleum Resources

23

(2)  Where  any  person  is  temporarily  appointed  to  the
staff of the Authority under subsection (1) such person shall
be  subject  to  the  same  disciplinary  control  as  any  other
member of the staff of the Authority.

5

PART VIII

PETROLEUM RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT FUND

35.

(1) There shall be established a Fund to be called
and known as the Petroleum Resources Development Fund
(hereinafter referred to as the "Fund") administered by the
Authority, into which shall be paid–

10

Establishment
of  the
Petroleum
Resources
Development
Fund

(a) all  such  sums  of  money  as  may  be  voted  by

Parliament;

(b) the fees charged by the Authority under this Act;

(c) all  grants,  donations,  contributions,  or  any  other

15

income;

(d) all  monies  collected  in  terms  of  Petroleum

Resources Agreements; and

(e) the amount of fines recovered under this Act.

(2) The Authority shall utilize the monies in the Fund–

20

25

(a) towards  meeting  costs  relating  to  the
administration  and  development  of  the
Authority  and  providing  remuneration  and
incentives to the staff;

(b) to improve the facilities of the Authority;

(c) to conduct such researches or operations as are
necessary  to  preserve  and  protect  the
environment  from  any  adverse  impacts  of
petroleum  operations;

24

Petroleum Resources

(d) to  acquire  and  enhance  such  data  as  may  be
required to further understand the existence of
potential petroleum resources of Sri Lanka;

(e) to  invest  in  knowledge  transfer  training  and
capacity building of staff and other employees
of  the  Authority  carrying  out  functions
connected  with  the  upstream  petroleum
industry for enhancing the management of the
upstream petroleum sector; and

(f) to  pay  all  other  such  expenses  as  may  be
required to be incurred by the Board to achieve
the objects of the Act.

5

10

(3) The Authority shall at the end of every financial year
credit  to  the  Consolidated  Fund,  a  sum  amounting  to
ten per centum of the monies lying to the credit of the Fund.

15

36.

(1)The  financial  year  of  the  Fund  shall  be  the

calendar year.

(2)  The  provisions  of  Article  154  of  the  Constitution
relating to the auditing of accounts shall apply in relation to
the audit of accounts of the Fund.

20

Financial
year  and  the
audit  of
accounts

PART IX

GENERAL PROVISIONS

25

37.

(1)  Where  any  land  or  any  servitude  in  a  land  is
required  by  the  contractor  for  petroleum  operations
conducted  or  proposed  to  be  conducted  by  him  under  a
Petroleum Resources Agreement, a Joint Study Agreement,
an Exploration Licence, a Development Licence or a Unit
Development Licence as the case may be, he shall notify the
Authority of such requirement.

Acquisition
of  property
for
contractors

Petroleum Resources

25

5

(2) Where such land or servitude therein is required by
the Authority for the purpose of the Authority, such land or
servitude  therein  may  be  acquired  under  the  Land
Acquisition  Act  (Chapter  460)  by  the  Government  or
Authority  and  the  provisions  of  that  Act  shall  mutatis
mutandis apply for the purpose of acquisition of that land or
servitude therein. Such land or servitude therein shall, for
the purposes of the Land Acquisition Act, be deemed to be
required for a public purpose.

10

(3) Any sum payable for the acquisition of any such land
or servitude therein under the Land Acquisition Act, shall
be paid by the contractor.

(4) Where any State land is required for the purpose of the
Authority, such purpose shall be deemed to be a purpose for
which a special grant or lease of such property may be made
under section 6 of the Crown Lands Ordinance (Chapter 454)
and, accordingly, the provisions of that Ordinance shall apply
to a special grant or lease of that property to the Authority.

38. The  Minister  may  from  time  to  time  issue  such
general  or  special  directions  in  writing  to  the  Authority
relating  to  the  exercise,  performance  and  discharge  of  its
powers, duties and functions and it shall be the duty of the
Authority to give effect to such directions.

Direction  of
the  Minister

Delegation  of
powers,
duties  and
functions  of
the  Board

39.

(1) The Board may, subject to such conditions as
may be specified in writing, delegate to the Director-General
or any officer of the Authority, any of its powers, duties and
functions under this Act, other than the powers, duties and
functions  specified  in  paragraphs  (g), (h), (j) and (m) of
section  4  and  the  Director-General  or  such  officer  shall
exercise, discharge and perform such power, duty or function
subject  to  any  special  or  general  directions  issued  by  the
Board.

(2)  Notwithstanding  any  delegation  made  under
subsection  (1),  the  Board  may  exercise,  discharge  and
perform any such power, duty or function so delegated.

15

20

25

30

35

26

Petroleum Resources

Delegation
powers,
duties  and
functions  by
the  Director-
General

40.

(1)The  Director-General  may  delegate  any  of  his
powers, duties and functions under this Act, to any officer of
the Authority.

5

(2) An officer to whom any power, duty or function is
delegated under subsection (1), shall exercise, discharge and
perform,  such  power,  duty  and  function  subject  to  such
directions as may be given by the Director-General.

(3)  The  Director-General  shall,  notwithstanding  any
delegation  made  under  subsection  (1),  have  the  right  to
exercise, discharge and perform any power, duty or function
so  delegated.

10

Powers  of
entry

41. Any officer authorized in writing by the Authority
may,  at  any  time  enter  into,  and  inspect  any  site  where
petroleum  operations  are  being  conducted  and  carry  out
investigations  or  surveys  thereon  as  may  be  necessary  to
ascertain whether the terms and conditions of the Petroleum
Resources Agreement or Joint Study Agreement or any other
Agreement  or  the  terms  and  conditions  imposed  by  an
Exploration  Licence,  a  Development  Licence  or  a  Unit
Development Licence, any provision of this Act or regulation
made thereunder are being complied with.

42.

(1)  The  Authority  shall  within  six  months  of  the
end of each calendar year transmit an annual report including
financial report giving full accounts of the activities of the
Authority during that year to the Minister.

Annual
report

15

20

25

(2) The Minister shall cause copies of the annual report

to be placed in Parliament.

43. All members of the Authority, officers, employees
and  agents  of  the  Authority  shall  be  deemed  to  be  public
servants within the meaning and for the purpose of the Penal
Code (Chapter 19).

30

All  members
of  the
Authority
etc.  deemed
to  be  public
servants

Petroleum Resources

27

44. The Authority shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution  within  the  meaning  of  the  Bribery  Act
(Chapter 26)  and  the  provisions  of  that  Act  shall  be
construed  accordingly.

Authority
deemed  to  be
a  Scheduled
Institution

45.

(1) All expenses incurred by the Authority in any
suit or prosecution brought by or against it before any court,
shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority and only costs
paid  to  or  recovered  by  the  Authority  in  any  such  suit  or
prosecution, shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority.

Expenses  to
be  paid  out
of  the  Fund
of  the
Authority

(2)  Any  expense  incurred  by  a  member  of  the  Board,
Director-General,  or  any  officer  or  other  employee  of  the
Authority, in any suit or prosecution brought by or against
such person before any court in respect of any act which is
done or purported to be done by such person under this Act,
shall if the court holds that the act was done in good faith, be
paid out of the Fund of the Authority, unless such expenses
are recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

46.

(1) Any person who–

Offences

(a) contravenes  the  provisions  of  this  Act  or

regulations made thereunder;

(b) resists or obstructs a person authorised under
section 41 in the exercise by such person of
any powers conferred on him by or under this
Act;

(c) fails without reasonable cause, to comply with
the requirements of a notice issued under this
Act;

(d) knowingly makes any false statement in any
return or information furnished by him under
this Act or in any application to enter into a
Petroleum  Resources  Agreement  or  Joint
Study Agreement in respect of an exploration
block or a development block;

5

10

15

20

25

30

28

Petroleum Resources

(e) willfully  omits  any  material  fact  from  any
return or information furnished by him under
this Act or in any application to enter into a
Petroleum  Resources  Agreement  or  Joint
Study  Agreement,  to  Exploration  License,
Development License, or Unit Development
License or,in any Development Plan or Unit
Development Plan in respect of an exploration
block or a development block;

(f) willfully damages or sabotages any petroleum

operations;  or

(g) fraudulently or negligently deprives the State
of  its  share  of  petroleum  resources  or
petroleum resources royalty,

commits  an  offence  under  this  Act  and  shall  be  liable  on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, to a fine
of not less than four million rupees and not exceeding one
hundred million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding ten years or to both such fine and imprisonment,
and if the offence of which he is convicted is continued after
the  conviction,  he  commits  a  further  offence  and  shall  be
liable in respect hereof to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand
rupees for each day on which the offence is so continued.

(2)  Where  a  person  is  convicted  of  an  offence  under
paragraph (g) of subsection (1), the Magistrate may order
the offender to pay the State, compensation in such sum as is
equivalent  to  the  value  of  the  petroleum  resources  or  the
petroleum resources royalty, as the case may be, which the
State has been deprived of, as a result of the act constituting
the offence.

5

10

15

20

25

30

47. Where an offence in terms of this Act is committed

by a body of persons, then if that body of persons–

Offences  by
a  body  of
persons

(a) is  a  body  corporate,  every  director,  manager,  or

secretary of that body corporate;

Petroleum Resources

29

(b) is a firm, every partner of the firm; or

(c) is an unincorporated body other than a firm, every

member of such body,

shall be deemed to have committed that offence:

Provided that, any person referred to in paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) above shall not be deemed to have committed
such offence if he proves that such offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence
to prevent the commission of such offence.

48.

(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
any  other  matter  which  is  required  by  this  Act  to  be
prescribed or in respect of which regulations are authorized
or required to be made.

Regulations

5

10

15

(2)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  the  powers
conferred  by  subsection  (1),  regulations  may  be  made  in
respect of any or all of the following matters:-

(a) the  procedure  to  be  followed  in  relation  to  data

licensing;

(b) the form of application for an Exploration Licence,
a  Development  Licence  and  a  Unit  Development
Licence and the format of such Licences to be issued
under the Act;

(c) the procedure for calling of proposals and selecting
of  contractors  for  the  conduct  of  petroleum
operations in respect of defined exploration blocks;

(d) the  procedure  to  be  followed  when  entering  into
Petroleum Resources Agreements and Joint Study
Agreements and to specify the criteria to be included
in the Petroleum Resources Agreement and the Joint
Study Agreement;

20

25

30

30

Petroleum Resources

(e) the summary of estimated fiscal projections at the
outset  of  the  project  for  the  information  of  the
Minister and the Authority and for monitoring over
the lifetime of the development;

5

(f) the specifications for the scope of–

(i) geophysical operations and surveys;

(ii) drilling  operations;  and

(iii) diving  activities,

10

15

20

required to be carried out prior to the issue of the
respective licences under the Act;

(g) the specifications for the matters –

(i) to be included in the programme of work and

the Unit Development Plan;

(ii) relating to the qualifications of non-officials
of  the  Authority,  Board  members  and  the
Director-General,of the Authority;

(iii) relating  to  environmental  protection  and
occupational  health  and  safety  as  are
applicable  in  relation  to  the  conduct  of
petroleum  operations;  and

(iv) to be included in relation to local content.

(3)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  shall  be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.

25

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, within
three months after its publication in the Gazette, be brought

Petroleum Resources

31

before Parliament for approval. Any such regulation that is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of disapproval, but without prejudice to anything duly
done  thereunder.

5

(5)  Notification  of  the  date  on  which  a  regulation  is

deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

49.

(1) The Authority may make rules in respect of–

Rules

(a) the appointment, employment and dismissal
of  various  officers  and  their  powers,  duties
and  functions;

10

(b) the  procedure  to  be  observed  at  the
summoning and holding of meetings, annual
general meeting and extraordinary meetings
of the Board;

15

(c) the  administration  and  management  of  the

affairs of the Authority; and

(d) all  matters  in  respect  of  which,  rules  are
required or authorized to be made under this
Act.

20

(2)  Every  rule  made  under  subsection  (1)  shall  be

approved by the Minister.

(3)  Every  rule  so  approved  shall  be  published  in  the
Gazette and shall come into operation upon such publication.

50. (1) The Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 2003 is

25

hereby repealed.

(2) The Director-General who, and the Authority which,
is  identified  and  were  functioning  as  such  in  terms  of
subsection (5) of section 5 and section 20 of the Petroleum
Resources  Act,  No.  26  of  2003,  prior  to  the  date  of

Repeals,
savings  and
transitional
provisions

32

Petroleum Resources

commencement of this Act shall from and after the date of
commencement  of  this  Act,  be  deemed  to  continue  to  be
the–

(a) Director-General appointed in terms of section 30

5

of this Act; and

(b) the Authority established in terms of section 3 of

this Act.

(3) Notwithstanding the repeal, of the aforesaid Act–

10

15

20

25

30

(a) all movable and immovable property vested in
the  Authority  in  terms  of  the  Petroleum
Resources  Act,  No.  26  of  2003,  on  the  day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall with effect from the date of commencement
of this Act, vest in the Authority established by
section 3 of this Act;

(b) all contracts, Memorandums of Understanding
and  agreements  entered  into  by  or  with  the
Authority in terms of the Petroleum Resources
Act, No. 26 of 2003, subsisting on the date of
commencement of this Act, shall, with effect from
the date of commencement of this Act, be deemed
to be contracts, Memorandums of Understanding
and  agreements  entered  into  by  or  with  the
Authority established by section 3 of this Act;

(c) all  actions  and  proceedings  instituted  by  or
against the Authority in terms of the Petroleum
Resources Act, No. 26 of 2003, and pending on
the  date  of  commencement  of  this  Act,  shall,
with effect from the date of commencement of
this  Act,  be  deemed  to  be  actions  and
proceedings as the case may be, instituted by or
against  the  Authority  established  by  section  3
of  this  Act  and  may  accordingly  be  continued
and  completed;

Petroleum Resources

33

(d) all  persons  who  were  members,  officers  and
employees  of  the    Authority  in  terms  of  the
Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 2003, and
holding office on the day immediately preceding
the  date  of  commencement  of  this  Act,  shall,
with effect from the date of commencement of
this Act, be deemed to continue to be members,
officers and employees of the Authority under
this Act;

(e) all judgments and orders made in favour of or
against the Authority in terms of the Petroleum
Resources Act, No. 26 of 2003, and remaining
unsatisfied  on  the  day  immediately  preceding
the  date  of  commencement  of  this  Act,  shall,
with effect from the date of commencement of
this Act, be deemed to be judgments and orders
made  in  favour  of  or  against  the  Authority
established  by  section  3  of  this  Act  and  be
enforced  accordingly;

(f) all  service  providers  providing  goods  and
services to any contractor under the terms of a
licence issued by the Authority in terms of the
Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 2003, and
who are on the day immediately preceding the
date of commencement of this Act, continuing
to provide such goods and services, shall, with
effect from the date of commencement of this
Act, be deemed to be service providers for the
purposes of section 23 of this Act; and

(g) all interests, rights, assets, obligations, debts and
liabilities  of  the  Authority  in  terms  of  the
Petroleum  Resources  Act,  No.  26  of  2003,  on
the  day  immediately  preceding  the  date  of
commencement of this Act, shall be deemed with
effect from the date of commencement of this
Act,  to  be  interests,  rights,  assets,  obligations,
debts and liabilities of the Authority.

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

34

Petroleum Resources

(4) All licences issued, regulations made in terms of the
Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 2003, and in force on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act and all data sales concluded, surveys conducted,
petroleum  operations  and  connected  matters  and  all
operational arrangements carried out, relating to each licence
or agreement as the case may be, shall, with effect from the
date of commencement of this Act-

(a) be  deemed  to  continue  to  be  valid  and  effectual,
unless  expressly  repealed  or  if  they  become
inconsistent  with  any  new  licences  issued,
agreements entered into, or regulations made under
this Act. In the case of an inconsistency, the new
licences, agreements, or regulations as the case may
be, shall prevail; and

(b) be deemed to continue to be valid and effective as
if they were concluded, conducted, or carried out
under this Act, unless express provision is made to
the contrary.

In    this    Act    unless    the    context    otherwise

51.
requires-

Interpretation

“contiguous  zone”  means,  the  zone  declared  to  be  the
Contiguous Zone of Sri Lanka by Proclamation made
under section 4 of the Maritime Zones Law, No. 22
of 1976;

“contractor” means, any person or body corporate, local
or  foreign,  authorised  to  conduct  petroleum
operations under a Petroleum Resources Agreement
which shall include joint study operations;

“exclusive economic zone” means, the Zone declared to
be  the  Exclusive  Economic  Zone  by  Proclamation
made under section 5 of the Maritime Zones Law,
No. 22 of 1976;

5

10

15

20

25

30

Petroleum Resources

35

“fiscal stability” means, maintaining for both contractor
and the State the same overall project economics as
agreed  mutually  at  the  time  of  entering  into  a
Petroleum  Resources  Agreement  by  allowing  the
adjustment of any of the fiscal parameters in case of
change of a government fiscal policy;

“historic waters” means, the limits of the historic waters
declared by Proclamation made under section 9 of
the Maritime Zones Law, No. 22 of 1976;

“Joint Study Agreement” means, an agreement entered
into between the State and one or more contractors
in terms of section 19 of the Act, to study and evaluate
the hydrocarbon potential of a defined area;

“Minister” means, the Minister assigned the subject and
functions relating to this Act under Article 44 and 45
of  the  Constitution;

“National Policy for the Upstream Petroleum Industry”
means, a policy which outlines the general principles,
management,  development  and  all  other  related
aspects  of  the  upstream  petroleum  sector  by
recognizing  the  challenges  and  providing  the
recommendations in order to monitor and guide the
upstream  industry  by  ensuring  the  right  balance
between  the  national  interest  of  the  State  and  the
interests of the contractors or operators;

“non-material terms and conditions” mean, items that will
not  directly  impact  the  evaluation  results  of  the
proposals;

5

10

15

20

25

“participating interest” means, the share of ownership or
equity of a participant in any entity or a joint venture;

30

“petroleum  data”  means,  geological,  geophysical,
geochemical, petrophysical, engineering, well logs,

36

Petroleum Resources

maps, magnetic tapes, cores, cuttings and production
data as well as all interpretative and derivative data
including  reports,  analyses,  interpretations  and
evaluation  prepared  in  respect  of  petroleum
operations,  economic  data  and  geological  samples
including all information interpretation reports;

“petroleum  operations”  mean,  activities  in  exploration,
development and recovery of petroleum resources,
including  but  not  limited  to  geological  surveys,
interpretation  of  seismic  data,  well  drilling,
production  testing,  separation,  processing,  storage,
recovery, transportation and marketing;

“petroleum reservoir” means, a naturally occurring discrete

accumulation of petroleum resources;

“petroleum resources” mean, crude oil, natural gas and
hydrocarbons  whether  in  natural  liquid,  gaseous,
solid  or  semisolid  state,  hydrates  of  oil  and  gas,
sulphur and other similar substances associated with
hydrocarbons  that  are  in  site  or  recovered  by
petroleum  operations;

“Petroleum Resources Agreement” means, a contract for
production sharing entered into in terms of section
18 of this Act, between the State and one or more
contractors;

“petroleum resources royalty” means, the royalty that is
payable  by  a  contractor  on  the  market  value  of  all
petroleum resources that are recovered by him from
the area covered by a Development Licence;

“territorial sea” means, the limits of the sea declared to be
the territorial sea of Sri Lanka by proclamation made
under section 2 of the Maritime Zones Law, No. 22
of 1976 and includes the internal waters of Sri Lanka;

5

10

15

20

25

30

Petroleum Resources

37

“unit development” means, the development of a common
reservoir  that  is  situated  within  the  boundaries  of
two or more exploration blocks or the area covered
by two or more development licences;

“United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea”
means, the United Nations Convention on the Law
of the Sea adopted in 1992 in Montego Bay, Jamaica,
entered into force on November 16, 1994 and ratified
by Sri Lanka on July 19, 1994; and

“upstream” means, the operational stages in the oil and
gas  industry  that  involve  exploration  and
development  and  deal  with  a  contractor  initially
taking steps to locate, drill, test and produce oil and
gas.

5

10

15

52.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

38

Petroleum Resources

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

