THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of June 07, 2024

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 12.06.2024)

ISIWARA  DEVELOPMENT,  SOCIAL  SERVICES  AND
CHARITY  FOUNDATION  (INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the  Isiwara Development, Social Services and
Charity Foundation

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Madhura Withanage
(Attorney-at-Law), M.P. for Colombo District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Isiwara Development, Social Services and Charity
Foundation  (Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ISIWARA DEVELOPMENT, SOCIAL
SERVICES AND CHARITY FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Isiwara
Development, Social Services and  Charity Foundation”
heretofore  been  formed  in Sri  Lanka  for  the purpose  of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all matters
connected with the said Foundation according to the   rules
agreed by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters for which it was established, and has applied to   be
incorporated,  and  it  will  be  expedient  to  grant  the  said
application:

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

5

10

15

1. This Act may be  cited as  the Isiwara Development,
Social  Services  and    Charity  Foundation  (Incorporation)
Act, No.    of 2024.

Short  title

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Isiwara
Development, Social Services and  Charity Foundation”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter
be  admitted  as  members  of  the  Corporation  hereby
constituted  shall  be  a  body  corporate  with  perpetual
succession  under  the  name  and  style  of  the  “Isiwara
Development, Social Services and  Charity Foundation”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and by that name
may sue and be sued,  with full power and authority to have
and use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

20

25

Incorporation
of  the  Isiwara
Development,
Social
Services  and
Charity
Foundation

2

Isiwara Development, Social Services and Charity
Foundation  (Incorporation)

3.  The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

(a) to provide medical aid and food to the poor and the
destitute and constucting houses and shelters;

(b) to conduct special services for needy school children
and to offer assistance by way of scholarships, library
facilities and other necessary support for students;

(c) to conduct classes for the students sitting for   year
five  scholarship,  GCE    (O/L)  and  GCE  (A/L)
examinations  by  experts  in  the  particular  field  of
education;

(d) to  establish  and  maintain  pre-schools  for  early
childhood development of the needy  children;

(e) to give aid by way of scholarships to any officer or
servants engaged in the furtherance of the objects of
the  Corporation;

(f) to  promote  understanding,  co-operation  and
friendship  with  similar  institutions  within  and
outside Sri Lanka;

(g) to  organize  employees  of  small  and  medium  scale
industries and enterprises and working towards their
future  advancement;

(h) to  design  and  implement  social  mobilization
programmes  for  the  development  of  children  and
women  and  implementing  education  and  training
programmes for this purpose;

5

10

15

20

25

Isiwara Development, Social Services and Charity
Foundation  (Incorporation)

3

(i) to  initiate  and  implement  technical,  industrial  and
computer  vocational  training  institutions  and
programmes  so  that  young  men  and  women  from
families of low social status can gain self employment
opportunities  ;

(j) to  provide  assitance  in  times  of  natural  and

disasters, emergencies and accidents ;

(k) to  provide  training  in  fields  of  engineering,
technology,  carpentry,  masonry,  driving  and
computing to young men and women who do not
get access for higher education and directing them
towards  such  vocations  and  starting  training
centres necessary for it ; and

(l) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to the attainment
of the attainment of the above objects.

4.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  any  other
written  law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary or
desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects  of
the Corporation or any one of them, including the power:—

Powers  of  the
corporation

(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,

in cash or kind;

(b) to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold, take
or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise dispose
of,  any  movable  or  immovable  property  and
construct, maintain and alter any buildings or works
necessary or  convenient for  the  business  of the
Corporation;

5

10

15

20

25

4

Isiwara Development, Social Services and Charity
Foundation  (Incorporation)

(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory  notes  and  other  negotiable  instruments
and to open, operate and close bank   accounts and
borrow or raise money with or without security;

(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the Corporation in such manner as the
Board of Management may determine;

(e) to enter into agreement or contracts with any person,
or body of persons whether incorporated in Sri Lanka
or  abroad  or  with  any  Government  Department,
Corporation,  Board,  Provincial  Council  or  Local
Authority for the achievement of the objects of the
Corporation;

(f) to  determine  the  fees  to  be  paid  in  respect  of
registration  of  different  categories  of  membership;
and

(g) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation   and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratitutes as
may be determined by the Corporation.

5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being  of  the  Corporation,  be  administered  by  a  Board  of
Directors  consisting  of  the  Director  General,  the  Deputy
Chairman,  the  Secretary,  Deputy  Secretary  and  Treasurer
and not less than seven other members elected in accordance
with such rules.

Management
of  the
Corporation

(2) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Directors of the  day
immediately  preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this
Act.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Rules  of  the
Corporation

Isiwara Development, Social Services and Charity
Foundation  (Incorporation)

5

5

10

6.  (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time  to
time,  at  any  general  meeting  and  by  the  votes  of  not  less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion
of members, the election of the Board of Management, for
the conduct of the duties of the office bearers, agents, officers
and  servants  of  the  Corporation,  for  the  procedure  to  be
followed in the transaction of business by the Corporation
and  Board  of    Management  and  generally,  for    the
management  of  the  affairs  of  the  Corporation  and  the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made   may
at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.

15

(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject

to    the rules of the Corporation.

7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All moneys
received by way of gifts, bequests, donations, transfers,
subscriptions, contributions or fees shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the
Board  of Management shall determine.

Fund  of  the
Corporation

(2)  There  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  Fund  of  the
Corporation, all such sums of money as may be required to
defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the  Corporation  in
carrying out the objects of the Corporation.

(3)  The  moneys  and  property  of  the  Corporation
whosesoever  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion of the objects as set forth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of  the
Corporation.

20

25

30

6

Isiwara Development, Social Services and Charity
Foundation  (Incorporation)

8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the

calendar year.

Accounts  and
Audit  of  the
Corporation

(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept  of  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities and
all other transactions of the  Corporation.

5

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
by a qualified auditor as may be determined by the  Board.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor”  means—

(a) an individual who, being a member of the  Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute; or

(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of    which,being  a    member  of    the    Institute  of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute.

9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the Director
General and the Secretary who shall sign their names on the
instrument  in  token  of  their  presence  and  such  signing
shall  be  independent  of  the  signing  of  any  person  as  a
witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation

10.  All  debts  and  liabilities  of  the  Foundation  existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to, and subscriptions  and contributions payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Foundation

10

15

20

25

30

Isiwara Development, Social Services and Charity
Foundation  (Incorporation)

7

11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
take  and  hold  any  property  movable  or  immovable  which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase grant, gift,
testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such property
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act,
and  subject  to  the  rules  in  force  for  the  time  being  of  the
Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange
or otherwise dispose of the same.

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

12. If  upon the  dissolution of  the  Corporation  there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be  given  or  transferred  to  some  other  Foundation  or
Foundations  having  objects  similar  to    those  of  the
Corporation,  and  which  is  or  are  by  the  rules  thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such Foundation or Foundations shall
be  determined  by  the  Board  at  or  immediately  before  the
dissolution  of  the Corporation.

13.      Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice,  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or
corporate  or  of  any  other  person,  except  such  as  are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

5

10

15

20

25

14.  In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

8

Isiwara Development, Social Services and Charity
Foundation  (Incorporation)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

