PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC 
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

————————

DOCTOR  REVEREND  HARISPATTUWE 
ARIYAWANGSHALANKARA  THERO  FOUNDATION 
(INCORPORATION)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Doctor Reverend Harispattuwe 
Ariyawangshalankara Thero Foundation

————————

Presented by the Hon. Premnath C. Dolawatte, Attorney at Law, M.P.     

for Colombo District on 27th April, 2023

(Published in the Gazette on March 28, 2023)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

[Bill No. 176]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 25.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

1
Doctor Reverend Harispattuwe
Ariyawangshalankara  Thero  Foundation  (Incorporation)

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DOCTOR REVEREND HARISPATTUWE
ARIYAWANGSHALANKARA THERO  FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Doctor
Reverend  Harispattuwe  Ariyawangshalankara  Thero
Foundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the
purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and transacting
all matters connected  with the said Foundation according to
the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  heretofor
successfully carried out and transacted  the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  expedient  to  grant  the  said
application:

BE it  therefor, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

5

10

15

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Doctor  Reverend
Harispattuwe  Ariyawangshalankara  Thero  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2023.

Short  title

Incorporation  of
Doctor  Reverend
Harispattuwe
Ariyawangshalankara
Thero  Foundation

20

25

2.  (1) From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the Doctor
Reverend  Harispattuwe  Ariyawangshalankara  Thero
Foundation  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Foundation”)  or
shall    hereafter  be  admitted  as  members  of  the  Corporation
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of the  “Doctor Reverend
Harispattuwe  Ariyawangshalankara  Thero  Foundation”
(hereinafter referred to as the “body corporate”)  and by that
name may sue and be sued, in all Courts with full power and
authority to have and  use a common seal and  to alter  the same
at its pleasure.

Body
corporate
operates  as  a
not-for-profit
Organization

The  general
objects  of  the
Body
corporate

2
Doctor Reverend Harispattuwe
Ariyawangshalankara  Thero  Foundation  (Incorporation)

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a voluntary
social service organization within the meaning and for the
purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Service  Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions  of  that  Act  shall  apply  to  and  in  relation  to  the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.

5

    3.  The  body  corporate  shall  operates  exclusively  as  a
not-for profit Organization and it is solely for the benefit of
the society and its members.

10

4. (1) The general objects for which the body corporate is

constituted are hereby declared to be:—

15

20

25

(a) to take action for the protection and perpetuation of

Maha Sanga;

(b) to implement system to re-strength the relationships
between  the  ordained  and  non-ordained;  the
protections of the Sambuddha Sasana;

(c) to  implement  programmes  to  make  the  monks  and
laymen below the age of twenty a set of people who
have  realized  the  Buddhist  hood  and  related
behavioral patterns with proper judgmental skills;

(d) to conduct and facilitating short, mid and long term

meditation training programs;

(e) to  conduct  programmes  in  relation  Buddhist
economic,  social,  cultural,  educational  and  ethical
concepts  in  order  to  re-establish  the  Buddhist  life
style;

(f) to conduct effective programmes to wipe out alcohol

and drugs;

3
Doctor Reverend Harispattuwe
Ariyawangshalankara  Thero  Foundation  (Incorporation)

(g) to  conduct  rehabilitation,  welfare  and  development

programmes;

(h) to take action for enlightenment of Buddhist culture

and retrieval of the Buddhist studies;

5

(i) to print and publishing educative publications which

help  to  achieve  enlightenment;

(j) to organize and conducting seminars and workshop
to create a set of lecturers out of monks and laymen
with a profound knowledge of Dharma who can teach
the way to a spiritual life;

10

(k) to  help  the  community  with  proper  guidance  and

counselling to resolve conflicts;

(l) to create opportunities for temporary ordainment and

practicing it effectively;

15

(m) to  work  towards  achieving  national  and  religious

reconciliation;

(n) to provide local and foreign scholarships for selected
ordained and non ordained leaders who are dedicated
to  achieving  the  objectives  of  the  Foundation  with
positive  attitudes;

20

(o) to  conduct  programmes  to  make  the  public  refrain
from  Four  Wrong  Paths  while  guiding  towards
practicing Four Divine Abodes and Four Way of Kind
Treatment; and

4
Doctor Reverend Harispattuwe
Ariyawangshalankara  Thero  Foundation  (Incorporation)

(p) to  involve  in  Amisa  Puja,  “material  offerings”
meaningfully  giving  priority  to  Pratipatti  Puja
“offering by means of practice”.

(2)  In  the  implementation  of  the  objects  specified  in
subsection  (1),  the  Corporation  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation  shall  be  carried  out  without  any
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex,
political opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.

5. The  objects  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  carried
out in such manner so as not to create any conflict between
the work of the Corporation and any work being carried out
simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or any Provincial Council.

6. (1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  the  body
corporate shall be carried out by a Board of Management
(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) consisting of such
number of office bearers as may be specified by the rules
made under section 7.

(2)  (a) The Board of Management of the Foundation that
holds office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Board of
the  body  corporate  until  the  first  Board  is  appointed  or
elected  in  the  manner  provided  for  by  rules  made  under
section 7.

5

10

15

20

25

(b)  The  first  Board  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be
appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

Body
corporate  to
ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of
Ministry  or
Department
of  the  Central
Government
or  Province

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the  body
corporate

5
Doctor Reverend Harispattuwe
Ariyawangshalankara  Thero  Foundation  (Incorporation)

(3)  (a)  Every  office  bearer  of  the  Board  including  the
patrons  and  advisors,  shall  be  appointed  or  elected  for  a
period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or
advisor  shall  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  or  re-election
after lapse of the said period of three years.

5

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer,  the  Board  shall  having  regard  to  the  rules  of  the
Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

10

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.

7.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  any  other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary
or desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including
the power-

Powers  of  the
body
corporate

(a)

to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required  for  the  purposes  of  the    body  corporate
and to deal with or dispose of the same as may be
deemed  expedient  with  a  view  to  promoting  the
objects of the body corporate;

(b)

to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind with or without security:

Provided  that,  the  Committee  shall  obtain  the
prior written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the  subject  of  Finance,  in  respect  of  all  foreign
grants,  gifts  or  donations  made  to  the  body
corporate;

15

20

25

30

6
Doctor Reverend Harispattuwe
Ariyawangshalankara  Thero  Foundation  (Incorporation)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f )

to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and  to  open,  operate,  and  close  accounts  in  any
banks;

to  invest  any  funds  not  immediately  required  for
the purposes of the body corporate in such manner
as the Committee may determine;

to  undertake,  accept,  execute,  perform  and
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;

to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the body corporate and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the body corporate;

(g)

to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects
of the body corporate.

8. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate from time
to time, at any General Meeting and by the votes of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matter:-

Rules  of  the
Body
corporate

(a)

(b)

the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal,  expulsion  or  resignation  of  members
and fees payable by members;

the election of office bearers of the Board or  vacation
of or removal from office of office bearers and the
powers, duties and functions of the office bearers;

5

10

15

20

25

30

7
Doctor Reverend Harispattuwe
Ariyawangshalankara  Thero  Foundation  (Incorporation)

(c)

(d)

the terms and conditions of appointments, powers,
functions and duties of the various officers, agents
and servants of the body corporate;

the procedure to be followed at the summoning and
holding  of  meetings  of  the  Board  or  any  sub
committee  thereof,  notices  and  agenda  of  such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;

(e)

the  qualifications  and  disqualifications  to  be  a
members of the Board and the body corporate;

(f)

the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate; and

(g)

the management of the affairs of the body corporate
and  the  accomplishment  of  its’  objects  and
dissolution of the Corporation.

5

10

15

(2)  The rules made by the body corporate may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the body corporate shall at all time be

20

subject to the rules of the body corporate.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be published

in the Government Gazette.

9. The Board shall maintain a register of members in which
name, address and other essential details of the members be
inscribed.

25

Register  of
members

Fund  of  the
body
corporate

8
Doctor Reverend Harispattuwe
Ariyawangshalankara  Thero  Foundation  (Incorporation)

10. (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2)  All  moneys  received  by  way  of  gifts,  bequests,
donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for an
account of the body corporate shall be deposited in one or
more  Banks  approved  by  the  Board  to  the  credit  of  the
Corporation.

5

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
as  are  required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions under the Act.

10

11.

(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
Auditing

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept  of  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities  and
all other transactions of the body corporate.

15

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be  audited
by a qualified auditor appointed by Auditor General in terms
of Article 154 of the Constitution.

(4) For the purposes of this section, “qualified auditor”

20

means —

(a)

an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or  any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute; or

25

9
Doctor Reverend Harispattuwe
Ariyawangshalankara  Thero  Foundation  (Incorporation)

(b)

a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of  which  being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.

Annual
Report

12.

(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of  the  body  corporate  for  each  financial  year  and  submit
such report together with the audited  statement of accounts
to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the
subject of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary
Social Services Organizations appointed under the Voluntary
Social Services Organization (Registration and Supervision)
Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of
the year succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2)  A  separate  account  relating  to  the  foreign  and
local  moneys  received  by  the  body  corporate  during  the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).

5

10

15

20

25

13. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day  preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the body corporate hereby constituted and
all debts due to and subscriptions and contributions payable
to  the  Foundation  on  that  day  shall  be  paid  to  the  body
corporate for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Foundation

14. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  the  body
corporate shall be able and capable in law, to take and hold
any  property  movable  or  immovable  which  may  become
vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary

Body
corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

10
Doctor Reverend Harispattuwe
Ariyawangshalankara  Thero  Foundation  (Incorporation)

disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by the body corporate for the purposes of this Act, and subject

to the rules of the body corporate made under section 7, with

power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose

5

of the same.

15. The  moneys  and  property  of  the  body  corporate

however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the

promotion  of  the  objects  of  the  body  corporate  and  no

portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  transferred  directly  or

Application
of  money
and  property

10

indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit to the members

of the body corporate.

16.

(1)  The  seal  of  the  body  corporate  shall  not  be

affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence

of two members of Board who shall sign their names to the

Seal  of  the
Body
corporate

15

instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall

be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody

of an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such

Board.

20

17.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  body  corporate

there  remains    after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and

liabilities, any property whatsoever, such property shall not

be  distributed  among  the  members  of  the  body  corporate,

but  shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  any  other  institution

25

having objects similar to those of the body corporate, and

which is  by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing

any income or property among its members.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

11
Doctor Reverend Harispattuwe
Ariyawangshalankara  Thero  Foundation  (Incorporation)

(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at  a  general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

5

18. Nothing    in  this  Act  contained    shall  prejudice  or
affect  the  rights  of  the  Republic  or  of  anybody  politic  or
corporate.

19. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Saving  of  the
Rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

12
Doctor Reverend Harispattuwe
Ariyawangshalankara  Thero  Foundation  (Incorporation)

Department  of  Government  Printing

