THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of February 05, 2021

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 10.02.2021)

  ROSHAN  RANASINGHE  JANASAHANA
FOUNDATION  (INCORPORATION)

 (Private Member’s Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the  Roshan Ranasinghe Janasahana Foundation

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Amarakeerthi Athukorala, M. P.
for Polonnaruwa District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 17.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Roshan  Ranasinghe  Janasahana
Foundation  (Incorporation)

1

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ROSHAN RANASINGHE
JANASAHANA FOUNDATION

5

10

Preamble

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Roshan
Ranasinghe  Janasahana  Foundation”  has  heretofore  been
formed at No. 829/1/B, Hospital Junction, Polonnaruwa of
Polonnaruwa  District  in  Sri  Lanka  for  the  purpose  of
effectually  carrying  out  and  transacting  all  objects  and
matters  connected  with  the  said  Foundation  according  to
the rules agreed to by its members:

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Association  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such  application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

15

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Roshan  Ranasinghe
Janasahana Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2021.

Short  title

Incorporation
of  the
Roshan
Ranasinghe
Janasahana
Foundation

2. From  and  after  the  date  of  commencement  of  this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Roshan  Ranasinghe  Janasahana  Foundation”  (hereinafter
referred to as “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be
a  body  corporate  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of “Roshan Ranasinghe Janasahana Foundation”
and by that name may sue and be sued with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same
at its pleasure.

20

25

2

Roshan  Ranasinghe  Janasahana
Foundation  (Incorporation)

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

5

10

15

20

25

(a)

implementing  diverse  programmes  for  the
propagation of Buddhism, Catholicism, Hinduism
and Islam among the people and extending as much
support  as  possible  for  their  promotion  and
establishing  societies  and  organizations  with  the
participation  of  the  devotees  of  such  religious
centers  with  a  view  to  building  a  virtuous  and
peaceful society valuing time honored customs and
rituals;

(b)

to  encourage  farmers  engaged  in  traditional  and
export  agricultural  activities    and  to  carry  out
various awareness programmes for them;

(c) providing  relief  and  welfare  services  in  natural
disasters, distress and unexpected incidents;

(d)

(e)

to provide or arrange to provide vocational training
and assistance to disadvantaged young persons to
engage  in  self-employment  or  to  secure  other
employment;

to engage in any industry or trade or any export or
import  business  and  to  aid  or  assist  persons  to
commence and operate agricultural, industrial and
commercial  ventures  and  to  undertake  training
programmes  and  extension  of  services  and  to
organize  propaganda  activities  relating  to  the
transfer of technology;

(f)

setting  up  welfare  insurance  schemes  for  the
members of the Foundation;

30

(g)

to do all other things necessary or expedient for the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation; and

(h)

to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions which have similar objects.

Roshan  Ranasinghe  Janasahana
Foundation  (Incorporation)

3

4.

(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being  of  the  Corporation  be  administered  by  a  Board  of
Directors consisting of Chairman and Secretary, Treasurer
and another eleven members elected in accordance with such
rules.

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the
Corporation

(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Mr. Roshan
Ranasinghe shall be the Chairman of the Board of Directors
for life and thereafter, a family member of the person who
was holding office as the Chairman shall become the next
Chairman of the Board of Directors.

(3) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of Administration of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.

(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for  a period of four years. When
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors  a  new  member  shall  be  appointed  to  fill  such
vacancy and such new member shall hold office for a period
of four years.

5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written  law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform  and  execute  all  such  acts,  matters  and  things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise moneys with or without security, accept and collect
grants and donations, invest moneys of the Corporations to
erect  any  building  or  structures  on  any  land  held  by  the
Corporation and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.

General
powers  of  the
Corporation

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

4

Roshan  Ranasinghe  Janasahana
Foundation  (Incorporation)

6.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistant with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters—

5

Rules  of  the
Corporation

(a)

classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal,  expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable;

(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and  duties;

(c)

the  appointment,  power,  duties  and  functions  of
the  various  officers,  agents  and  servants  of  the
Corporation;

(d) qualification required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors; and

10

15

20

(e)

the administration and management of property of
the  Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to

25

the rules of the Corporation.

7. All  debts  and  liabilities  of  the  Foundation  existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.

30

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Foundation

Roshan  Ranasinghe  Janasahana
Foundation  (Incorporation)

5

8.

(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter be received by way of gifts,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the
Board of Directors shall determine.

Fund  of  the
Corporation

(2)  There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its power, duties and function under this Act.

9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire  and  hold  any  property,  movable  and  immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and
all  such  property  shall  be  held  by  the  Corporation  for  the
purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the
time  being  of  the  Corporation,  with  full  power  to  sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

10. No member of the Corporation of the Corporation
shall for the purpose of discharging the debts and liabilities
of  the  Corporation  or  for  any  other  purpose,  be  liable  to
make  any  contribution  exceeding  the  among  of  such
membership fees as may be due from him to the Corporation.

Limitation  of
liabilities  of
members

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

11.

If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Corporation,  there
remains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given
or transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which, is or
are  by  its  or  their  rules  prohibited  from  distributing  any
income or property among their members. Such institution
or institutions may be determined by the Board of Directors
on or before the dissolution of the Corporation.

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

12.

(1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.

Audit  and
accounts  of
the
Corporation

6

Roshan  Ranasinghe  Janasahana
Foundation  (Incorporation)

(2)  The  financial  year  of  the  Corporation  shall  be  the

calendar year.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and  audited  at  least  once  in  every  year  by  an  auditor  or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.

5

10

15

Seal  of  the
Corporation

13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any  instrument  whatsoever  except  in  the  presence  of
Chairman  of  the  Corporation  and  one  member  of  the
Corporation and one member of the Board of Directors such
number of person as may be provided for in the rules in force
for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of signing  of any person as a
witness.

14. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect  the  rights  of  the  Republic  or  of  anybody  politic,  or
corporate  or  of  any  other  persons  except  such  as  are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

20

15.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

Roshan  Ranasinghe  Janasahana
Foundation  (Incorporation)

7

Department  of  Government  Printing

