THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of October 27, 2023

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 31.10.2023)

S  O  S  CHILDREN'S  VILLAGE OF  SRI  LANKA
ORGANIZATION  (INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the S O S Children's Village of Sri Lanka Organization

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Kumarasiri Rathnayake, M.P.
for Monaragala District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

S O S Children's Village  of
Sri Lanka Organization (Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE S O S CHILDREN'S VILLAGE OF
SRI LANKA ORGANIZATION

WHEREAS  an  Organization  called  and  known  as  the
“S  O  S  Children's  Village  of  Sri  Lanka  Organization”  has
heretofore  been  formed  in  Sri  Lanka  for  the  purpose  of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all matters
connected with the said Organization according to the rules
agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Organization  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  expedient  to  grant  the  said
application:

BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

5

10

1. This Act may be cited as the S O S Children's Village of

Short  title

15

Sri Lanka Organization (Incorporation) Act, No.   of  2023

Incorporation
of the S O S
Children's
Village  of  Sri
Lanka
Organization

2. (1) From and after the date commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the S O S
Children's  Village  of  Sri  Lanka  Organization  (hereinafter
referred  to  as  the  “Organization”)  or  shall  hereafter  be
admitted as members of the Corporation hereby constituted,
shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession, under
the name and style of the “S O S Children's Village of Sri
Lanka  Organization”  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “body
corporate”)  and  by  that  name  may  sue  and  be  sued,  in  all
Courts  with  full  power  and  authority  to  have  and  use  a
common seal and to alter the same as its pleasure.

20

25

Body
corporate
operates  as  a
not-for-profit
Organization

The  General
objects  of  the
body
corporate

2

S O S Children's Village  of
Sri Lanka Organization (Incorporation)

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a voluntary
social service organization within the meaning, and for the
purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Service  Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions  of  that  Act  shall  apply  to  and  in  relation  to  the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.

5

3. The body corporate shall operates exclusively as a not-
for- profit Organization and it is soley for the benefit of the
society and its members.

10

4. (1) The general objects for which the body corporate is

constituted are hereby declared to be  —

(a)

to establish S O S Children's Village in the Island
of Sri Lanka;

15

(b)

(c)

to  provide  children  living  in  S  O  S  Children's
Villages  the  total  protection  in  the  form  of
“family like care” model;

to  establish  community  centres,  Hermann
Gmeiner Schools and vocational training centres
for mothers and children ;

20

(d)

to  establish  youth  villages  and  constructing
houses  for  adolescent  children  who  are  under
the protection of S O S Children's Villages ;

(e)

to select and train mothers, caregivers and other
employees for S O S Children's Villages ;

25

(f)

to  enlighten  people,  organizations  and  the
general public on th concepts such as “protection

S O S Children's Village  of
Sri Lanka Organization (Incorporation)

3

in the form family like care” and other children's
welfare  concepts  through  print,  electronic  and
social media ; and

(g)

to work in cooperation with the S O S Children's
Villages  International  Organization  and  other
local and foreign.

(2)  In  the  implementation  of  the  objects  specified  in
subsection  (1)  the  Corporation  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation  shall  be  carried  out  without  any
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex,
political opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.

5. The objects of the Body corporate shall be carried out
in such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work  of  the  Corporation  and  any  work  being  carried  out
simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or any Provincial Council.

6.

(1) Subjects to the provisions of this Act, the Body
corporate  shall  be  carried  out  by  a  Board  of  Management
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  “the  Board”  consisting  of  such
number  of  office  bearers  as  may  be  specified  by  the  rules
made under Section 8.

(2) (a) The Board of Management of the foundation that
holds office on the day immediately proceeding that date of
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Board of the
Body corporate until the first Board is appointed or elected
in the manner provided for by rules made under Section 8.

(b) The first Board of the Body corporate shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.

5

10

15

20

25

Body
corporate  to
ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of
Ministry  or
Department
of  the  Central
Government

Management
of  the  Affairs
of  the  body
corporate

4

S O S Children's Village  of
Sri Lanka Organization (Incorporation)

(3)  (a)  Every  office  bearer  of  the  Board  including  the
patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a period
of three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisor
shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapse
of the said period of three years.

5

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer,  the  Board  shall  having  regard  to  the  rules  of  the
Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

10

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term of
office of the member whom he succeeds.

7. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  any  other
written law, the Body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary or
desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including the
power -

Powers  of  the
body
corporate

(a) to  purchase,  acquire  rent,  construct,  renovate  and
otherwise  obtain  lands  or  buildings  which  may  be
required for the purpose of the Body corporate and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of the
Body corporate ;

(b) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,

in cash or kind with or without security :

Provided  that,  the  Committee  shall  obtain  the
prior written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the  Minister assigned
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign grants,
gifts or donations made to the Body corporate.

15

20

25

30

S O S Children's Village  of
Sri Lanka Organization (Incorporation)

5

(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory  notes  and  other  negotiable  instruments
and  to  open,  operate  and  close  accounts  in  any
banks;

(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the Body corporate in such manner as the
Committee may determine;

(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and administer
any lawful trust or any real or personal property with
a  view  to  promoting  the  objects  of  the  Body
corporate;

(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Body corporate and
exercise  disciplinary  control  over  them  and  to  pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Body corporate;

(g) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects
of the Body corporate.

8. (1) It shall be lawful for the Body corporate, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matter:—

Rules  of  the
Body
corporate

(a) the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal,  expulsion  or  resiganation  of  members
and fees payable by members ;

5

10

15

20

25

6

S O S Children's Village  of
Sri Lanka Organization (Incorporation)

(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or vacation
of or removal from office of office bearers and the
powers, duties and functions of the office bearers;

(c) the  terms  and  conditions  of  appointment,  powers,
functions and duties of the various officers, agents
and servants of the Body corporate;

(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning and
holding  of  meetings  of  the  Board,  or  any  sub-
committee  thereof,  notices  and  agenda  of  such
meetings,  the  quorum  and  the  conduct  of  business
thereat;

(e) the qualification and disqualification to be a member

of the Board and the Body corporate;

5

10

(f) the administration and management of the property

15

of the Body corporate ; and

(g) the management of the affairs of the Body corporate
and the accomplishment of its' objects and dissolution
of the Corporation.

20

(2) The rules made by the Body corporate may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Body corporate shall at all time be

subject to rules of the Body corporate.

(4) The rules made under this Section shall be published

25

in the Government Gazette.

9.  The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members be inscribed.

Register  of
members

S O S Children's Village  of
Sri Lanka Organization (Incorporation)

7

10.  (1) The Body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests, donations,
subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for an account of
the Body corporate shall be deposited in one or more Banks
approved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.

5

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
as  are  required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its power, duties and functions under the Act.

Fund  of  the
body
corporate

10

11.

(1) The financial year of the Body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
the  Auditing

(2) The Body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all
other transactions of the body corporate.

15

(3) The accounts of the Body corporate shall be audited
by a qualified auditor appointed by Auditor General in terms
of Article 154 of the Constitution.

(4)  For  the  purpose  of  this  section  “qualified  auditor”

means–

20

(a)

an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute; or

25

(b)

30

a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners,
of  which  being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law possesses a certificate
to practice as Accountant issued by the Council of
such Institute.

8

S O S Children's Village  of
Sri Lanka Organization (Incorporation)

Annual
Report

12.

(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of  the  Body  corporate  for  each  financial  year  and  submit
such report together with the audited statement of accounts
to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the
subject of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary
Social Services Organizations appointed under the Voluntary
Social Services Organizations (Registration and Supervision)
Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of the
year succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2)  A  separate  account  relating  to  the  foreign  and  local
moneys received by the Body corporate during the financial
year  shall  be  attached  to  the  report  referred  to  in
subsection (1).

13.  All debts and liabilities of the Foundation  existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Body corporate hereby constituted, and
all debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions  payable
to  the  Foundation  on  that  day  shall  be  paid  to  the  Body
corporate for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
foundation

14. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Body corporate
shall be able and capable in law, to take and hold any property
movable or immovable which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase grants, gifts, testementary dispositions
or otherwise, and all such property shall be  held by the Body
corporate for the purposes of this Act, and subject to the rules
of the Body corporate made under section 7, with power to
sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the
same.

Body
corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

15.    The  moneys  and  property  of  the  Body  corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion of the objects of the Body corporate and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or profit to the members of the Body
corporate.

Application
of  money
and  property

5

10

15

20

25

30

5

10

15

20

S O S Children's Village  of
Sri Lanka Organization (Incorporation)

9

16. (1) The seal of the Body corporate shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members  of  the  Board  who  shall  sign  their  names  to  the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
body
corporate

(2) The seal of the Body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.

17.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Body  corporate
there  remains  after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities, and property whatsoever, such property shall not
be distributed among the members of the Body corporate,
but  shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  any  other  institution
having objects similar to those of the Body corporate, and
which is by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its members.

(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determinded by the members of the Body
corporate  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at  a  general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members prsent.

18. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or corporate.

19. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil Texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

Saving  of  the
Rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistancy

10

S O S Children's Village  of
Sri Lanka Organization (Incorporation)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

