THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

Part II of  July 30, 2021

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 02.08.2021)

UnV  FOUNDATION  (INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the UnV Foundation

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Velu Kumar,  M.P.
for Kandy District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

UnV  Foundation (Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE UNV FOUNDATION

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “UnV
Foundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the
purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all objects
and matters connected  with the said Foundation,  according
to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble.

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated  and  it  will  be  for    public  advantage  to  grant
such  application:

BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  UnV  Foundation

Short  title.

(Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2021.

Incorporation
of  UnV
Foundation.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of  the “UnV
Foundation”  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Foundation”)
and shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby  constituted,  shall  be  a  body  corporate,  (hereinafter
referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession,
under the name and style of   “UnV Foundation” and by that
name may sue and be sued in all courts, with full power and
authority to have and  use a common seal and  alter the same at
its pleasure.

5

10

15

20

25

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

General
objects  of  the
Corporation.

(a) to improve the education of children;

(b) to promote peace among communities;

2

UnV  Foundation (Incorporation)

(c) to participate in the development of the country;

(d) to advise and assist all communities in Sri Lanka to

live in peace and harmony;

(e) organizing  and  conducting  a  separate  unit  for  the
Social  Welfare,  Economic  Development  and
Educational Improvement of Ladies;

(f) to  assist  the  development  of  educational,  religious,
cultural,  aesthetic  and  sports  facilities  without  any
reference to race, religion or cast and to provide with
adequate  funds  and  implemention  of  food  schemes
for the state and private orphanages;

(g) to  stop  proliferation  of  drug  menace  and  to

rehabilitate  drug  addicts;

5

10

(h) fishermen and farmers to be provided with the required

15

equipment to develop the industry;

(i) youth  to  be  provided  financial  assistance  for  self-

employment;

(j) to provide for securing and maintenance of discipline

and cultural ethics;

20

(k) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign

institutions when have similar objects.

4. 

(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other  provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being  of  the  Corporation,  be  administered  by  a  Board  of
Directors  consisting  of  a  Chairman,  Deputy  Chairman,
Secretary, Treasurer and another eleven members elected in
accordance with such rules.

25

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the
Corporation.

UnV  Foundation (Incorporation)

3

(2) The founder member shall be Chairman of the Board
of Directors for life and thereafter, the family members of the
person who was holding office as the Chairman shall become
the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.

(3) The first Board of  the  Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of Administration of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.

5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written  law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform  and  execute  all  such  acts,  matters  and  things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise money with or without security, to erect any building
or  structure  on  any  land  held  by  the  Corporation  and  to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants required
for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

General
powers  of  the
Corporation.

6.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting of the members and by a majority
of not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting,
to make rules, not inconsistence with the provisions of this
Act, or any other written law, for all or any of the following
matters:—

Rules  of  the
Corporation.

(a)

classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable;

(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meeting
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and  duties;

5

10

15

20

25

30

4

UnV  Foundation (Incorporation)

(c)

the  appointment,  power,  duties  and  functions  of
the  various  officers,  agents  and  servants  of  the
Corporation;

(d) qualification required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors; and

5

(e)

the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or repealed at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

10

(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to

the rules of the Corporation.

15

20

25

30

7. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation, hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Corporation.

8.

(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys  heretofore  or  hereafter  to  be  received  by  way  of
gifts, bequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees
or  grants  for and on account of the Corporation shall be
deposited  to  the  credit  of  the  Corporation  in  one  or  more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.

Fund  of  the
Corporation.

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of moneys
required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
lease, gift, agreement or testamentary disposition or otherwise

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable.

UnV  Foundation (Incorporation)

5

and all such property shall be held by the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for
the time being of the Corporation, with full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

5

10

10.

If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Corporation  there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be  given  or  transferred  to  some  other  institution  or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and  which,  is  or  are  by  its  or  their  rules  prohibited  from
distributing any income or property among their members.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution.

11.

(1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys reveived and
expended by the Corporation.

15

Audit  and
accounts  of
the
Corporation.

(2)  The  financial  year  of  the  Corporation  shall  be  the

calendar year.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and  audited  at  least  once  in  every  year  by  an  auditor  or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.

20

12. The seal of the Corporation shall  not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number  of  persons  as  may  be  provided  for  in  the  rules  in
force for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence, and
such  signing  shall  be  independent  of  the  signing  of  any
person as witness.

25

Seal  of  the
Corporation.

13. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or

affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody corporate.

30

14.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency.

6

UnV  Foundation (Incorporation)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

