PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

REGULATION  OF  ELECTION  EXPENDITURE
ACT,  No.  3  OF  2023

[Certified on 24th of  January, 2023]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 27, 2023

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 25.00

Postage : Rs. 50.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Regulation  of  Election  Expenditure
Act, No. 3 of 2023

1

[Certified on 24th of January, 2023]

L.D.-O. 30/2018

AN ACT TO REGULATE THE EXPENDITURE INCURRED BY RECOGNIZED
POLITICAL PARTIES, INDEPENDENT GROUPS AND CANDIDATES AT EVERY
ELECTION CONDUCTED UNDER THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS
ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 262); THE PROVINCIAL COUNCILS ELECTIONS
ACT, NO. 2 OF 1988; THE PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS ACT, NO. 1
OF 1981 AND THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS ACT,  NO. 15 OF 1981
AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Regulation of Election

Short  title

Expenditure Act, No. 3 of 2023.

2. The provisions of this Act shall apply to every election

conducted under –

Application  of
this  Act

(a)

(b)

(c)

the  Local  Authorities  Elections  Ordinance
(Chapter 262);

the  Provincial  Councils  Elections  Act,  No.  2  of
1988;

the  Parliamentary  Elections  Act,  No.  1  of  1981;
and

(d)

the Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of 1981.

3. (1) Within a period of five days after the conclusion of
the period of nomination specified in the Proclamation or
Order  requiring  the  conduct  of  an  election  under  any  law
specified  in  section  2,  the  Election  Commission  shall,    in
consultation  with  the  recognized  political  parties,  and  the
independent groups contesting such election, fix by Order
published  in  the  Gazette,  a  sum  of  money  in  Sri  Lankan
rupees to be used for the purpose of calculating an authorized
amount, in accordance with the provisions of this section,
for such election:

Authorized
amount

2

Regulation  of  Election  Expenditure
Act, No. 3 of 2023

Provided however, in the case of a presidential election,
every candidate who has not been nominated by a political
party shall be consulted.

(2) Such sum of money to be fixed under subsection (1)
shall be calculated taking into consideration the prevailing
inflation rate and the National Consumer Price Index of Sri
Lanka.

(3) The authorized amount in relation to a candidate  shall

be calculated as follows:-

(a)

(b)

(c)

in the case of an election conducted under the Local
Authorities Elections Ordinance (Chapter 262), the
amount  in  Sri  Lankan  rupees  resulting  from  the
multiplication  of  the  total  number  of  registered
voters in the ward of the local authority contested
by  the  candidate,  by  such  amount  of  Sri  Lankan
rupees  as  may  be  fixed  for  that  election  by  the
Election Commission under subsection (1);

in  the  case  of  an  election  conducted  under  the
Provincial Councils Elections Act, No. 2 of 1988,
the amount in Sri Lankan rupees resulting from the
multiplication  of  the  total  number  of  registered
voters  in  the  administrative  district  contested  by
the candidate, by such amount of Sri Lankan rupees
as  may  be  fixed  for  that  election  by  the  Election
Commission under subsection (1);

in  the  case  of  an  election  conducted  under  the
Parliamentary  Elections  Act,  No.  1  of  1981,  the
amount  in  Sri  Lankan  rupees  resulting  from  the
multiplication  of  the  total  number  of  registered
voters  in  the  electoral  district  contested  by  the
candidate, by such amount of Sri Lankan rupees as
may  be  fixed  for  that  election  by  the  Election
Commission under subsection (1);

Regulation  of  Election  Expenditure
Act, No. 3 of 2023

3

(d)

in  the  case  of  an  election  conducted  under  the
Presidential  Elections  Act,  No.  15  of  1981,  the
amount  in  Sri  Lankan  rupees  resulting  from  the
multiplication  of  the  total  number  of  registered
voters  in  the  electoral  districts  in  the  Island,  by
such amount of Sri Lankan rupees as may be fixed
for that election by the Election Commission under
subsection (1).

(4) The  authorized  amount  in  relation  to  recognized
political parties and independent groups shall be calculated
by taking into consideration the sum of money referred to in
subsection (1), the total number of registered voters in the
local  authority  area  or  the  administrative  district  or  the
electoral district or the electoral districts in the Island as the
case may be, contested by each recognized political party or
independent group at an election conducted under any law
specified  in  section  2  and  the  number  of  candidates
nominated by such recognized political party or independent
group to contest such election.

(5) The authorized amount calculated in accordance with
the provisions of subsections (3) and (4), shall be published
in the Gazette on the same day, on which the Order under
subsection (1) is published in the Gazette.

(6) The  consultation  process  referred  to  in  subsection
(1) may be conducted by the Election Commission through
the relevant returning officers.

4.  (1) A recognized political party, an independent group
and  a  candidate  at  an  election  conducted  under  any  law
specified in section 2, shall not incur expenditure in excess
of the authorized amounts referred to in subsections (3) and
(4) of section 3 as the case may be,  in respect of such election.

Restriction  on
election
expenditure  by  a
recognized
political  party,
an  independent
group  and  a
candidate

4

Regulation  of  Election  Expenditure
Act, No. 3 of 2023

(2) Where a candidate incurs expenditure in excess of the
authorized amount referred to in subsection (3) of section 3
in  respect  of  such  election,  such  candidate  commits  an
offence of an illegal practice within the meaning of the law
specified  in  section  2  under  which  such  election  was
conducted and, shall be liable to the penalties imposed under
such  law  in  respect  of  the  offence  of  an  illegal  practice,
unless  such  candidate  proves  that  such  expenditure  was
incurred  without  any  sanction  or  connivance  of  such
candidate.

Prohibition  on
the  acceptance
of  certain
donations

5. (1) A recognized political party, an independent group
and  a  candidate  at  an  election  conducted  under  any  law
specified in section 2, shall not, directly or indirectly accept
or receive a donation or contribution whether such donation
or contribution is in cash or kind from-

(a)

(b)

(c)

a government department, a public corporation or
a company incorporated under the Companies Act,
No.7 of 2007 or under any former written law relating
to companies in which the government or a public
corporation owns any shares;

a foreign government, an international organization
or  a  body  corporate  incorporated  or  registered
outside Sri Lanka;

a  company  incorporated  in  Sri  Lanka  under  the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 or under any former
written law relating to companies where the foreign
shareholding  in  such  company,  either  direct  or
indirect, is fifty percent or above; or

(d)

any person whose identity is not disclosed,

for  the  purpose  of  promoting  or  procuring  the  election  of
such  recognized  political  party,  independent  group  or
candidate at such election.

Regulation  of  Election  Expenditure
Act, No. 3 of 2023

5

(2)  A  candidate  who  contravenes  the  provisions  of
subsection  (1)  commits  an  offence  of  an  illegal  practice
within the meaning of the law specified in section 2 under
which  such  election  was  conducted  and  shall  be  liable  to
the  penalties  imposed  under  such  laws  in  respect  of  the
offence of an illegal practice.

6. (1) Every recognized political party, independent group
and  candidate  at  an  election  conducted  under  any  law
specified  in  section  2  shall  within  twenty-one  days  of  the
date of publication of the result of such election, submit to
the respective authority specified in subsection (3) -

Submission  of
return  of
donations  or
contributions
received  and
expenditure
incurred

(a)

(b)

a return of all donations or contributions accepted
or received by such recognized political party, an
independent group or candidate on behalf of such
recognized  political  party,  independent  group  or
candidate;  and

a return of all expenses incurred by such recognized
political party, independent group or candidate on
behalf  of  such  recognized  political  party,
independent  group  or  candidate,

for promoting or procuring the election of such recognized
political party, independent group or candidate.

(2) For the purposes of this section “date of publication
of the results of such election” means, the date of publication
of results –

(a) under section 66 of the Local Authorities Elections
Ordinance (Chapter 262) in the case of an election
conducted under that Ordinance;

(b) under  section  60  of  the  Provincial  Councils
Elections  Act,  No.  2  of  1988  in  the  case  of  an
election conducted under that Act;

6

Regulation  of  Election  Expenditure
Act, No. 3 of 2023

(c) under section 62 of the Parliamentary Elections Act,
No. 1 of 1981 in the case of an election conducted
under that Act; and

(d) under  section  64(2)  of  the  Presidential  Elections
Act,  No.  15  of  1981  in  the  case  of  an  election
conducted under that Act.

(3)  The  returns  referred  to  in  subsection  (1)  shall  be
submitted  by  the  recognized  political  party,  independent
group and candidate –

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

to  the  returning  officer  of  the  respective  local
authority  area  with  a  copy  to  the  Election
Commission, in the case of an election conducted
under  the  provisions  of  the  Local  Authorities
Elections Ordinance (Chapter 262);

to  the  returning  officer  of  the  respective
administrative district with a copy to the Election
Commission, in the case of an election conducted
under the Provincial Councils Elections Act, No. 2
of 1988;

to the returning officer of the respective electoral
district with a copy to the Election Commission, in
the  case  of  an  election  conducted  under  the
Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981; or

to  the  Election  Commission,  in  the  case  of  an
election conducted under the Presidential Elections
Act, No. 15 of 1981.

(4) The return referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection

(1) shall state -

(a)

the  amount  of  every  donation  or  contribution
accepted  or  received  by  or  on  behalf  of  such
recognized  political  party,  independent  group  or
candidate, and if the donation or contribution is in
kind,  the  estimated  value  of  the  donation  or
contribution;

Regulation  of  Election  Expenditure
Act, No. 3 of 2023

7

(b) whether such donation or contribution was by way

of gift, loan, advance or deposit; and

(c)

the  name,  address  and  National  Identity  Card
number or registration number as the case may be,
of the individual or body of persons incorporated
or  unincorporated  making  such  donation  or
contribution.

(5) The return referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection
(1) shall include expenditure incurred by or on behalf the
recognized political party, independent group or candidate,
whether paid or unpaid for –

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

the  printing,  publication,  pasting,  exhibition  or
display  of,  advertisements,  handbills,  flags,
drawings, photographs, placards or posters relating
to such election;

the production and broadcast, on radio or television
of advertisements relating to such election;

the  production  and  publication  in  newspapers,
journals,  social  media,  digital  hoardings  or  any
other  digital  media,  or  other  publications  of
advertisements relating to such election;

the hiring or use of any premises or equipment for
the holding of meetings relating to such election;

the hiring of vehicles for activities relating to such
election  other  than  expenditure  for  the    hiring  of
vehicles for the transport of the candidate; and

(f)

the  provision  of  fuel  for  the  running  of  those
vehicles,

8

Regulation  of  Election  Expenditure
Act, No. 3 of 2023

together with bills and receipts confirming the same, and if
the  above  services  were  obtained  without  payment,  the
names  and  the  addresses  of  the  persons  from  whom  such
services were obtained shall be included:

Provided  however,  the  expenditure  incurred  by  or  on
behalf of the recognized political party, independent group
or candidate for –

(a)

(b)

the  transport  of  the  candidate  within  the  area  for
which the election is being held; and

the  stationery,  telephone  or  other  means  of
communication,

shall not be included in the return referred to in paragraph
(b) of subsection (1).

(6) The returns referred to in subsection (1) shall be signed
by  the  secretary  to  the  recognized  political  party,  group
leader of the independent group or the candidate as the case
may be and  accompanied by a declaration signed by such
secretary, group leader or candidate and attested by a Justice
of the Peace, to the effect that the information in such returns
is  to  the  best  of  the  knowledge  of  such  secretary,  group
leader or candidate,  true and correct.

7. (1) On receipt of the returns and declarations submitted

under section 6 –

(a)

the respective returning officer, in the case of an
election  conducted  under  the  Local  Authorities
Elections Ordinance (Chapter 262), the Provincial
Councils  Elections  Act,  No.  2  of  1988  or  the
Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981; and

(b)

the Election Commission, in the case of an election
conducted under the Presidential Elections Act, No.
15 of 1981,

Publication  of
notice  relating  to
receipt  of
returns  and
declarations

Regulation  of  Election  Expenditure
Act, No. 3 of 2023

9

shall cause a notice to be published in at least one national
newspaper  in  the  Sinhala,  Tamil  and  English  languages
stating that the returning officer or the Election Commission,
as the case may be, has received the returns and declarations
submitted  by  the  recognized  political  party,  independent
group or candidate named in the notice and indicating the
place and time at which such returns and declarations may
be inspected by any person.

(2) The  notice  referred  to  in  subsection  (1),  shall  be
published within ten days after the expiry of the time period
specified in subsection (1) of section 6.

(3) The returning officer and the Election Commission
shall permit a person to inspect the returns and declaration
made by a recognized political party, an independent group
or a candidate at the place and time mentioned in the notice
published under subsection (1) and shall allow such person
to take copies of such returns or declaration on payment of a
fee of such amount as may be determined by the Election
Commission.

8. Every candidate, at an election conducted under any

law specified in section 2, who –

Offence  of  an
illegal  practice

(a)

fails, without reasonable cause, to comply with the
provisions of subsection (1) of section 6; or

(b) makes any statement in any such return submitted
under subsection (1) of section 6 or in a declaration
made  under  subsection  (6)  of  section  6,  being  a
statement  which  such  person  knows,  or  ought
reasonably to have known, to be false,

commits an offence of an illegal practice within the meaning
the law specified in section 2 under which such election was
conducted, and shall be liable to penalties specified by such
law for the commission of an illegal practice.

10

Regulation  of  Election  Expenditure
Act, No. 3 of 2023

Interpretation

9. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -

“administrative district” means, the administrative
district established under the Administrative
Districts Act (Chapter 392);

“donation or contribution accepted or received on
behalf  of  a  recognized  political  party,  an
independent group or a candidate” means,
such  donation  or  contribution  which  is
accepted or received directly or indirectly
with the express or implied consent of  the
recognized political party, the independent
group or candidate;

“election” means, an election conducted under –

(a) the  Local  Authorities  Elections

Ordinance (Chapter 262);

(b) the  Provincial  Councils  Elections  Act,

No. 2 of 1988;

(c) the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1

of 1981;

(d) the Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of

1981;

“electoral  district”  means,  an  electoral  district
specified  in  a  Proclamation  under  Article
97 of the Constitution and for the time being
in force; and

“local  authority”  means,  a  Municipal  Council,
Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

10. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Regulation  of  Election  Expenditure
Act, No. 3 of 2023

11

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

