PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

————————

LOCAL  AUTHORITIES  ELECTIONS  (AMENDMENT)

A

BILL

to amend the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance (Chapter 262)

————————

Presented by the Hon. Premnath C. Dolawatte, Attorney at Law, M. P.
for Colombo District on 08th of November, 2022

(Published in the Gazette on October 14, 2022)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

[Bill No. 160]

————————

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)

1

AN ACT TO AMEND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS ORDINANCE
(CHAPTER 262)

BE it  enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Local  Authorities

Short  title

Elections (Amendment) Act, No.       of 2022.

5

2. Section  28  of  the  main  ordinance  as  amended  by
Section 8 of the Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)
Act No. 16 of 2017 is amended as follows:—

Amendment
of  Article  28
of  the
Principal
Enactment

10

15

20

25

(i) Subsection (2) of section 28 of the Principal Enactment,
as amended by subsection (2) of Section 8 of the Local
Authorities Elections (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
is  hereby  removed  and  amended  by  substituting  the
following  section:–

“In subsection (2) of that section by the repeal of
the  words  commencing  from  “Any  recongnized
political party” and ending with the words “setting
out the names:–”, and the substitution therefore of
the  following:–

“(2) Any  recongnized  political  party  or
independent group shall, for the purpose of election
as  members  of  any  local  authority,  submit  two
nomination papers in respect of all wards of such
local authority. The nomination papers submitted
by every recongnized political party or independent
group in respect of all wards of any local authority
shall consist of the number of candidates of whom
twenty five per centum are youth candidates, whilst
upholding the principle that not less than ten  per
centum of the total number of members to be elected

2

 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)

and returned in the first nomination paper, and not
less  than  fifty  per  centum  of  the  total  number  of
candidates in the additional  nomination paper shall
be women candidates for the purpose of election as
members  of  such  local  authority,  substantially  in
the Forms set out in the First Schedule, setting out
the names–”.”

(ii) Subsection  (6)  of  Section  8  of  the  Local  Authorities
Elections (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017 is hereby
repealed  and  amended  substituting  the  following
section:–

Subsection  (2A)  of  Section  28  of  the  Principal
Enactment,  as  amended  by  the  subsection  (6)  of
Section  8  of  the  Local  Authorities  Elections
(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017, is hereby entirely
repealed and amended as the following:–

(2A) The Commissioner shall by notice published
in  the  Gazette,  specify  the  minimum  number  of
women  candidates  and  youth  candidates  as
specified in subsection (2) to be nominated in the
First  Nomination  Paper  and  the  Additional
Nomination Paper in respect of all wards of each
Local Authority. Where the total number of women
candidates  to  be  nominated  is  such  that  not  less
than  ten  per  centum  and  youth  candidates  to  be
nominated is such that not less than twenty five per
centum of the total numer of members to be elected
and returned in the First Nomination Paper. Women
should comprise not less than fifty per centum of
the  number  of  candidates  and  youth  should
comprise not less than twenty five per centum in
the  Additional  Nomination  Paper.  When  such
number  of  candidates  would  be  an  integer  and

5

10

15

20

25

30

 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)

3

fraction,  the  integer  shall  be  deemed  to  be  the
number required for the purposes of this section.”.”

(iii) Subsections (2D) and (2E) of section 28 of the Principal
Enactment,  as  amended  by  subsection  8  and  9  of  the
Local Authorities Elections (Amendment) Act, No. 16
of 2017 are hereby repealed.

5

(iv) As amended subsection (2) of section 11 of the Local
Authorities Elections (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2017
of the Section 31 (E) of the Principal Enactment is hereby
entirely repealed and amended as follows:–

10

“(f) that does not contain the total number of women
and youth candidates as required to be nominated
under  subsection  (2A)  of  section  28  of  this
Ordinance.”.

Suspicion
Clause

15

20

25

3. (a) Subsections 2 (i) and 2 (ii) of this Act stipulate
that  when  confirming  the  ten  per  centum  of  women
candidature in the first nomination list of a local government
body, that ten per centum should, as much as possible, must
be evenly distributed among the 75% of the adult candidates
and  25%  of  the  young  candidates.  Also,  as  stated  in
subsections 2 (i) and 2 (ii) of the Act, fifty per cent  of the
second  nomination  list  of  a  local  government  body  for
women candidates, that fifty per cent, should be distributed
as reasonably as possible, between 25% of young candidates
and 75% of adult candidates.

(b) The  provisions  of  this  Act  shall  apply  to  any
provisions of this Act contrary to the provisions of this Act.

4

 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)

4. (a) The term “Youth Candidates” mentioned in any
section of this Act should be read and understood as both
male and female youth candidates.

Interpretation

(b) For the purpose of this Act, ‘Youth Candidates’ mean

5

to persons between the ages of 18 and 35 years.

5.

In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency.

 Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)

5

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

