THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

Part II of  August 02, 2024

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 02.08.2024)

PUBLIC  ASSETS  MANAGEMENT

A

BILL

to provide for the establishment of a Department to be called and known
as the Department of Comptroller-General; to identify and compile a
National Assets Register of non-financial movable or immovable assets
fully owned, assigned, possessed, vested in, held or utilised by a Public
Institution; to update such register periodically and to ensure proper
returns of such assets to the Public Institutions and to provide for matters
 connected therewith or incidental thereto

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Finance,
Economic  Stabilization  and  National  Policies

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Public Assets Management

1

L.D - O.43/2022

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A DEPARTMENT TO
BE CALLED AND KNOWN AS THE DEPARTMENT OF COMPTROLLER
GENERAL; TO IDENTIFY AND COMPILE A NATIONAL ASSETS,
REGISTER OF NON-FINANCIAL MOVABLE OR IMMOVABLE ASSETS
FULLY OWNED, ASSIGNED, POSSESSED, VESTED IN, HELD OR UTILISED
BY A PUBLIC INSTITUTION; TO UPDATE SUCH REGISTER PERIODICALLY
AND TO ENSURE PROPER RETURNS OF SUCH ASSETS TO THE PUBLIC
INSTITUTIONS  AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.  (1)  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Public  Assets

Management Act, No.   of 2024.

Short  title
and  date  of
operation

5

(2). The provisions of this Act, other than subsection (2)
of section 8, shall come into operation on the date on which
this Act is certified as an Act of Parliament.

10

(3)  The provisions of subsection (2) of section 8, shall
come  into  operation  on  such  date  as  the  Minister  may
appoint,  having  regard  to  the  gradual  completion  of  the
National Assets Register, by Order published in the Gazette
(hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”).

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF COMPTROLLER GENERAL

15

2.  There  shall  be  established  a  Department  called  the
Department of Comptroller-General (hereinafter referred to
as the “Department”).

Establishment
of  the
Department
of
Comptroller-
General

2

Public Assets Management

3. (1) There shall be appointed a Comptroller-General
who shall be the head of the Department (hereinafter referred
to  as  the  “Comptroller-General”)  and  such  other  officers
and employees as may be required from time to time to carry
out the powers, duties and functions of the Department.

Comptroller-
General  and
other  officers
and
employees

(2) The Comptroller-General may delegate in writing to
the Head of a Public Institution any of his powers, duties
and  functions  as  may,  from  time  to  time,  be  considered
necessary  in  relation  to  the  Non-Financial  Assets  of  the
respective  Public  Institution.

4. The objects of the Department shall be to-

Objects  of  the
Department

(a)

(b)

establish  an  updated  and  comprehensive  central
database  to  record  the  Non-Financial  Assets  and
accordingly  establish  a  National  Assets  Register
containing  relevant  details  of  the  Non-Financial
Assets;

ensure  that  the  Non-Financial  Assets  are  utilised
and  managed  by  the  Public  Institutions  in
accordance  with  the  policies,  guidelines  and
procedures stipulated by the Government from time
to time;

(c) provide guidance for the effective and efficient use
of  the  Non-Financial  Assets  to  strengthen  the
development framework of the Government; and

5

10

15

20

25

(d)

ensure  the  collection  of  revenue  by  the  Public
Institutions  where  Non-Financial  Assets  are
disposed of by such Public Institutions.

Public Assets Management

3

5. The powers, duties and functions of the Department

shall be to-

5

(a)

identify  and  classify  the  Non-Financial  Assets  in
accordance  with  the  relevant  policies,  guidelines
and procedures stipulated by the Government, by a
notification published in the Gazette under section
6 of this Act;

Powers,
duties  and
functions  of
the
Department

(b) obtain the details of the Non-Financial Assets from

the Public Institutions;

10

(c)

15

create  and  maintain  a  comprehensive  central
database  to  record  the  Non-Financial  Assets
containing the relevant details of such Assets as the
Minister  may,  from  time  to  time,  identify  by  a
notification published in the Gazette under section
6 of this Act;

(d) update  the  central  database  from  time  to  time  as
may be determined by rules made in that behalf by
the Comptroller-General;

(e)

20

compile the National Assets Register based on the
information  of  the  central  database  referred  to  in
paragraphs  (c)  and  (d)  of  this  section  and  update
such  Register  from  time  to  time  as  may  be
determined  by  rules  made  in  that  behalf  by  the
Comptroller-General;

25

(f)

take necessary steps in giving effect to matters set
out in sections 7, 12 and 13 and provide information
to  Public  Institutions  for  the  management  of  the
Non-Financial Assets;

4

Public Assets Management

(g) make recommendations for the preparation of the
guidelines and directives issued under section 7 to
ensure  the  valuation  of  Non-Financial  Assets  in
the manner specified in the Schedule to this Act;

(h) make recommendations for the preparation of the
guidelines and directives to be issued under section
7  in  respect  of  the  assessment  of  Non-Financial
Assets at the time of release on lease or on rental
basis  to  another  party  by  a  Public  Institution,
disposal  through  Government  procedures  or
relevant  procedure  stipulated  by  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers  and  the  collection  and  reporting  of
revenue in respect of such Non-Financial Assets;

(i)

(j)

coordinate with the relevant Public Institutions in
the  process  of  recovery  of  the  possession  of  the
Non-Financial Assets where information has been
received that such assets are being acquired or used
by other parties in an illegal manner;

coordinate with the relevant Public Institutions in
cases where it appears that the Non-Financial Assets
have not been properly utilised and identify other
Public  Institutions  that  can  effectively  use  such
assets  for  development  activities,  suggesting
suitable measures to be taken for the same;

(k) obtain from the relevant Public Institutions copies
of  maps,  survey  plans  or  any  other  document
irrespective  of  its  physical  form  or  character
relating  to  the  Non-Financial  Assets  required  for
the  performance  of  the  duties  of  the  Department
under this Act; and

5

10

15

20

25

30

Public Assets Management

5

(l)

act as the Revenue Accounting Officer as may be
necessary for the purposes of this Act.

5

6. The Minister may, from time to time, by Notification
published in the Gazette, identify and classify Non-Financial
Assets with relevant details based on the recommendation
of the Secretary to the Treasury. Such recommendations shall
be made in consultation with the Comptroller-General.

Minister  to
identify  and
classify
assets

7.    The  Secretary  to  the  Treasury  may,  in  consultation

with the Comptroller-General -

(a) make recommendations to the Minister in respect
of  the  formulation  of  policies  by  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers;  and

(b)

issue directives and guidelines,

Secretary  to
the  Treasury
to  make
recommendations
and  issue
directives  and
guidelines

for the purposes of achieving the objectives of this Act.

PART II

NATIONAL ASSETS REGISTER

10

15

8. (1) The Department shall prepare the National Assets
Register in respect of all Public Institutions to reflect relevant
details of the Non-Financial Assets including the value of
such Non-Financial Assets in financial terms.

20

National
Assets
Register  to
be  submitted
to  the
Parliament

(2)  The  National  Assets  Register  shall  be  updated
annually  and  a  summary  of  the  Register  of  the  previous
financial  year  shall  be  submitted  to  the  Parliament  on  or
before the thirtieth day of June of the succeeding year.

25

9. The Department shall report to the Cabinet of Ministers
when required for the management of Non-Financial Assets
along with relevant information.

Report  to  the
Cabinet  of
Ministers

6

Public Assets Management

10. (1) The Department may require in writing, the Chief
Accounting Officer, Accounting Officer, Chairman or Chief
Executive Officer of any Public Institution as the case may
be, to submit within such period as specified in such request,
any information, document, clarification, report or material,
relating to any Non-Financial Asset of the relevant Public
Institution.

Officers  of
Public
Institutions  to
provide
information

(2) Where the Department requires such information or
other matter under subsection (1) of this section it shall be
the  duty  of  such  Chief  Accounting  Officer,  Accounting
Officer, Chairman or Chief Executive Officer, as the case
may be, to submit such information or other matter to the
Department as required.

(3) In the event where it is practically difficult to submit
the information or other matter within the period specified
in  the  request  under  subsection  (1)  of  this  section  or
additional time is required to submit such information, the
Department  shall  be  informed  immediately  and  a  further
period of not more than twenty-one working days may be
obtained.

(4)  The Chief Accounting Officer, Accounting Officer,
Chairman or Chief Executive Officer, as the case may be,
who fails or refuses to submit such information, document,
clarification, report or material within the period stipulated
in subsection (3) of this section shall be liable to furnish an
explanation  for  not  submitting  such  information  or  other
matter as required to the Comptroller General within two
weeks from the expiration of such period. Such explanation
submitted shall be considered by a three member Appeals
Committee  appointed  by  the  Secretary  to  the  Treasury,
which shall consist of a Deputy Secretary to the Treasury, a
representative  from  the  Department  and  a  representative
from a Ministry other than the line Ministry of such Chief
Accounting Officer, Accounting Officer, Chairman or Chief
Executive  Officer,  as  the  case  may  be,  and  the  Appeals
Committee may accept or reject such explanation.

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

Public Assets Management

7

(5) The Chief Accounting Officer, Accounting Officer,
Chairman or Chief Executive Officer, as the case may be,
who  fails  or  refuses  to  furnish  an  explanation  under
subsection  (4)  of  this  section  or  whose  explanation  was
rejected by the Appeals Committee referred to in subsection
(4)  of  this  section,  commits  an  offence  and  shall  upon
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable
to a fine not less than Rupees Ten Thousand and not more
than Rupees One Hundred Thousand  to be paid personally
by such officer.

PART III

GENERAL

Protection
from  action

Regulations

11.  No  civil  or  criminal  proceedings  shall  be  instituted
against the Secretary to the Treasury, Deputy Secretary to
the  Treasury,  Comptroller-General,  any  employee  of  the
Department, members of the Appeals Committee or a person
who previously held such a position, for any act which in
good faith is done or purported to be done by him under this
Act pursuant to and in the course of the exercise, performance
and discharge of the powers, duties and functions on behalf
of the Department, if he proves that he acted in good faith
and exercised all due diligence, reasonable care and skill.

12. (1) The Minister may, on the recommendations of the
Secretary  to  the  Treasury,  make  regulations  in  respect  of
matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of
which regulations are necessary to be made in order to give
effect to the objects of the Department and the provisions of
this  Act.  Such  recommendations  shall  be  made  in
consultation with the Comptroller-General.

(2)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  shall  be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in such regulations.

5

10

15

20

25

30

8

Public Assets Management

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for its approval. Any regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date  of  its  disapproval,  but  without  prejudice  to  anything
previously  done  thereunder.

5

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be rescinded, shall be published in the Gazette.

10

13.  (1)  The  Comptroller-General  may,  with  the
recommendation of the Secretary to the Treasury, make rules
in  respect  of  the  administration  and  management  of  the
provisions of this Act.

Rules

(2)  Every  rule  made  under  subsection  (1)  shall  be

approved by the Minister.

15

(3)  Every  rule  so  approved  shall  be  published  in  the
Gazette  and  shall  come  into  operation  upon  such
publication.

14. (1) The Schedule to this Act may be amended or varied
by  an  Order  made  by  the  Minister  and  published  in  the
Gazette.

Amendment
of  the
Schedule  to
this  Act

20

(2) Every Order made under this section shall come into
operation on the date of such publication or on such later
date as may be specified in such Order.

(3)  Every  Order  made  under  this  section  shall  be
published  in  the  Gazette  and  as  soon  as  convenient  be
brought before Parliament for its approval.

25

Public Assets Management

9

(4) Any such Order which is refused to be approved by
Parliament shall be deemed to be revoked with effect from
the  date  of  its  refusal,  but  without  prejudice  to  anything
previously  done  thereunder.

5

10

15. (1) The office of the Comptroller-General established
pursuant to the Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers dated
February 21, 2017 and presently attached to the Ministry of
the Minister (hereinafter referred to as “Office”), shall with
effect  from  the  date  of  commencement  of  this  Act  stand
transferred to the Department.

Savings

15

20

25

(2)  The  Comptroller-General  and  all  officers  and
employees  in  the  employment  of  the  Office  on  the  day
immediately  preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this
Act shall, with effect from the date of commencement of this
Act  be  deemed  to  be  duly  appointed  Comptroller-General
officers and employees of the Department.

(3) All activities carried out by the Office shall, with effect
from the date of commencement of this Act, be deemed to be
carried out and shall continue to be carried out, under this
Act.

(4) All debts, obligations, assets and liabilities incurred,
contracts  and  agreements  entered  into  and  all  matters  and
things engaged or agreed to be done by, with or for the Office
as  at  the  date  immediately  preceding  the  date  of
commencement of this Act shall, with effect from the date of
commencement  of  this  Act,  be  deemed  to  be  debts,
obligations,  assets  and  liabilities  incurred,  contracts  and
agreements entered into and all matters and things engaged
or agreed to be done by, with or for, the Department.

10

Public Assets Management

(5) All property movable and immovable, belonging to
the  Office  on  the  day  immediately  preceding  the  date  of
commencement of this Act shall, with effect from the date of
commencement of this Act, vest in the Department.

(6) All regulations, rules, guidelines and directives made
in respect of the Office and in force on the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, and which
are  not  inconsistent  with  the  provisions  of  this  Act  shall,
with effect from the date of commencement of this Act, be
deemed to be regulations, rules, guidelines, directives made
under this Act, and may accordingly be amended, added to
or  rescinded  by  regulations,  rules,  guidelines,  directives
made under this Act.

(7)  All  suits,  prosecutions,  actions  or  proceedings
instituted by or against the Office and which are pending on
the date immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall, with effect from the date of commencement
of this Act, be deemed to be suits, prosecutions, actions or
proceedings  instituted  by  or  against  the  Department  and
may be continued accordingly.

(8) All decrees, orders or awards entered or made in favour
of  or  against  the  office  by  any  court  or  tribunal  or  other
body in any action or proceeding shall, with effect from the
date of commencement of this Act, be deemed to be decrees,
orders or awards entered or made in favour of or against the
Department and may be enforced accordingly.

16. Unless the context otherwise requires-

Interpretation

“Accounting  Officer”  means  except  where  other
arrangements  are  made  by  the  Treasury,  the
head  of  a  department  in  respect  of  all  the
financial  transactions  of  such  department  in
terms of Financial Regulations 125 (1);

5

10

15

20

25

30

Public Assets Management

11

“Chief  Accounting  Officer”  unless  otherwise
specifically provided in any other written law
includes -

(a)

(b)

(c)

to  a  Ministry
the  Secretary 
the  Chief
to  be 
appointed 
Accounting Officer of such Ministry;

an officer in charge of a department
of  the  Government  referred  to  in
Article 52 (7) of the Constitution; or

an  officer  in  charge  of  any  other
department or entity not supervised
by  a  Secretary  as  specified  in
paragraph (a);

“government  revenue”  includes  revenue  from  the

disposal of Non-Financial Assets;

“local  authority”  means  any  Municipal  Council,
Urban Council, Pradeshiya Sabha and includes
any authority created or established by or under
any  law  to  exercise,  perform  and  discharge
powers, duties and functions corresponding or
similar  to  powers,  duties  and  functions
exercised,  performed  and  discharged  by  any
such Council or Sabha;

“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject
of Finance assigned under Article 44 or 45 of
the  Constitution;

“Non-Financial  Assets”  includes  any  produced  or
non-produced   movable or immovable assets,
which  are  categorized  as  lands,  buildings,

5

10

15

20

25

12

Public Assets Management

5

10

15

20

25

30

structures,  plant  and  machinery,  vehicles,
office equipment and furniture or declared as
Non-Financial  Assets  by  notification
published under section 6 of this Act; and fully
owned,  assigned,  possessed,  vested  in,  held,
utilised, leased,  rented or released on lease or
rental  basis  to  another  party  by  a  Public
Institution  or    assets  disposed  of  through
government procedures or relevant procedure
stipulated by the Cabinet of Ministers;

“Provincial  Council”  means  a  Provincial  Council
established    under  Chapter  XVIIA  of  the
Constitution;

“Public Corporation” means any corporation, board
or other body which was or is established by
or  under  any  written  law  other  than  the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 with funds or
capital  wholly  or  partly  provided  by  the
Government by way of loan, grant or otherwise;

“Public  Institution”  includes  Special  Spending
Units,  Ministries,  Departments,  District
Secretariats,  Provincial  Councils,  Local
Authorities, Public Corporations, business or
other undertakings vested in the government
under  any  written  law  and  companies
registered under the Companies Act, No. 07 of
2007,  in  which  the  government,  a  public
corporation  or  a  local  authority  holds  more
than  fifty  per  centum  of  the  shares  of  that
company;

“Revenue Accounting Officer” means the officer who
the Treasury indicate from time to time to be

Public Assets Management

13

responsible for the preparation of the Estimates
of Revenue referred to in Financial Regulations
125 (2);

5

“Special Spending Unit” means an entity, other than
a Ministry, Department, District Secretariat or
a  Provincial  Council  that  has  been  given  an
Expenditure  Head 
relevant
Appropriation Act.

the 

in 

17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

10

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

SCHEDULE

(section  5)

No.

Type  of  Non-

Financial  Asset

Time  frequency  of  valuation  of

such  Asset

  1.    Lands

  2.    Buildings

  3.    Structures

  4.    Plant and

          machinery

  5.    Vehicles

  6.        Office  equipment

          and  furniture

Once  in  every  five  years,  as  at  31st

December  of 

the  relevant  year.

However,  if  there  is  any  incident  that

causes  a  significant  change  in  the  value

of  these  assets,  value  of  such  assets  as

at  31st  December  of  that  particular  year

shall  be  assessed.  Revaluation  of  the

asset  subjected  to  significant  change  in

the  value,  for  practical  reasons,  may  be

done  as  at  31st  December  of  the  year

which  completes  five  years  from  the

new  valuation  or  as  at  31st  December

of  the  year  which  completes  five  years

from  the  immediate  previous  valuation

as  the  case  may  be.

14

Public Assets Management

Department  of  Government  Printing

