PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

VALUE  ADDED  TAX  (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 9 OF 2021

[Certified on 13th of May, 2021]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 13, 2021

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Value Added Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2021

1

[Certified on 13th of May, 2021]

L. D.— O. 9/2020

AN ACT TO AMEND THE VALUE ADDED TAX  ACT, NO. 14 OF 2002

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Value  Added  Tax

Short  title

(Amendment) Act, No. 9 of 2021.

2. Section 2 of the Value Added Tax Act, No.14 of 2002
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended as follows:-

Amendment  of
section  2  of
Act,  No.14  of
2002

(1)

in item (v) of sub-paragraph (v) of subsection (1) of
that section by the  substitution for the words  “any
taxable period thereafter” of the words and figures
“any  taxable  period  thereafter  but  for  the  period
ending on or before November 30, 2019; and”;

(2)

by the insertion immediately after the item (v) of
sub-paragraph (v) of subsection (1) of that section
of the following:-

“(vi) for the period commencing on December 1,
2019 and ending on December 31, 2019 and
for any taxable period commencing on or after
January 1, 2020 at the rate of eight per centum
(of which the tax fraction is 2/27),”.

3. Section  3  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “Notwithstanding the provisions of section 2,
the  tax  shall  not  be”  of  the  words  and  figures
“Notwithstanding the provisions of section 2, for any period
prior to January 1, 2020, the tax shall not be”.

Amendment  of
section  3  of  the
principal
enactment

Amendment  of
section  7  of  the
principal
enactment

2

Value Added Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2021

4. Section  7  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby

amended in subsection (1) of that section as follows:-

(1) by the substitution in paragraph (a), for the words
“where  the  supplier  of  such  goods  has  exported
such goods;” of the words “where the supplier of
such  goods  has  exported  such  goods  for  which
payment is received in foreign currency through a
bank in Sri Lanka licenced under the Banking Act,
No. 30 of 1988 within a period of six months from
the  end  of  the  taxable  period  of  which  such
exportation  has  taken  place;”;

(2)

in paragraph (b) of that subsection–

(a) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (i) for
the words “immovable property outside Sri
Lanka” of the words “immovable property
outside  Sri  Lanka,  for  which  payment  is
received in foreign currency through a bank
in  Sri  Lanka  licenced  under  the  Banking
Act, No. 30 of 1988 within a period of six
months from the end of the taxable period
of which supply of such service is provided;

(b) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (iia) for
the words “re-export under entre-port trade:”
of  the  words  and  figures  “re-export  under
entre-port  trade,  for  which  payment  is
received in foreign currency through a bank
in Sri Lanka licenced under the Banking Act,
No. 30 of 1988 within a period of six months
from the end of the taxable period of which
supply of such service is provided;

(c) by  the  substitution  in  sub-paragraph  (iii)
for the words “such right if for use outside
Sri Lanka” of the words “such right is for
use outside Sri Lanka, for which payment is

(d)

(e)

(f)

Value Added Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2021

3

received in foreign currency through a bank
in  Sri  Lanka  licenced  under  the  Banking
Act, No. 30 of 1988 within a period of six
months from the end of the taxable period
of which supply of such service is provided;

by the substitution in sub-paragraph (v) for
the words “payment is received in foreign
currency through a bank, if ” of the words
and figures “payment is received in foreign
currency  through  a  bank  in  Sri  Lanka
licenced under the Banking Act, No. 30 of
1988 within a period of six months from the
end of the taxable period of which supply
of such service is provided, if;

by the substitution in sub-paragraph (vi) for
the words “payment is received in foreign
currency, through a bank” of the words and
figures  “payment  is  received  in  foreign
currency  through  a  bank  in  Sri  Lanka
licenced under the Banking Act, No. 30 of
1988 within a period of six months from the
end of the taxable period of which supply
of such service is provided;

by  the  substitution  in  sub-paragraph  (vii)
for the words “payment for such service is
received in foreign currency, through a bank
in  Sri  Lanka  in  so  far”  of  the  words  and
figures  “payment  for  such  service  is
recieved in foreign currency through a bank
in  Sri  Lanka  licenced  under  the  Banking
Act, No. 30 of 1988 within a period of six
months from the end of the taxable period
of which supply of such service is provided,
in so far;”;

4

Value Added Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2021

(3)

by the substitution in paragraph (c), for the
words “foreign currency from outside  Sri
Lanka through a bank in Sri Lanka” of the
words  and  figures  “foreign  currency  from
outside  Sri  Lanka  through  a  bank  in
Sri Lanka licenced under the Banking Act,
No. 30 of 1988 within a period of six months
from the end of the taxable period of which
supply of such service is provided”;

(4)

by  the  insertion  immediately  after
subsection (2), of the following:–

“(3)  Notwithstanding  the  payment  in
respect of supply of goods or services
referred to in subsection (1) of section
7  is  not  received  in  foreign  currency
through a bank in Sri Lanka licenced
under the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988
within a period of six months from the
end  of  the  taxable  period  of  which
such  exportation  has  taken  place  or
supply of such service is provided, as
the case may be, where it is proved to
the satisfaction of the Commissioner-
General that such goods are exported
or the services are performed, the rate
specified in section 2 shall not apply
on such supply of goods or services.”.

Amendment  of
section  10  of
the  principal
enactment

5. Section  10  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby

amended as follows:-

(1)

in subsection (1) of that section-

(a)

by the substitution in paragraph (v), for the
words and figures “on or after April 1, 2016,

Value Added Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2021

5

carries on” of the words and figures “on or
after  April  1,  2016,  but  prior  to  January  1,
2020, carries on”;

(b)

by the insertion immediately after paragraph
(v), of the following:-

“(vi) on or after January 1, 2020, carries on or
carries  out  any  taxable  activity  in  Sri
Lanka shall be required to be  registered
under this Act, if—

(a) at the end of any taxable period of
one  month  or  three  months,  as  the
case may be, the total value of the
taxable supplies of goods or services
or goods and services of such person,
made  in  Sri  Lanka  in  that  taxable
period of one month or three months,
as the case may be, is seventy five
million rupees or more; or

(b)

in  the  twelve  months  period  then
ending, the total value of the taxable
supplies  of  goods  or  services  or
goods and services of such person,
made  in  Sri  Lanka  has  exceeded
three hundred million rupees; or

(c) at  any  time,  there  are  reasonable
grounds  to  believe  that  the  total
value  of  the  taxable  supplies  of
goods  or  services  or  goods  and
services of such person in Sri Lanka,
in  the  succeeding  one  month  or
three months taxable period, as the
case  may  be,  is  likely  to  exceed

6

Value Added Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2021

seventy five million rupees or in the
succeeding  twelve  months  period
is  likely  to  exceed  three  hundred
million rupees.”;

(2)

in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
for the words “exempted under PART II of the First
Schedule to the Act, is not less  than” of the words
and figures “exempted under PART II of the First
Schedule to this Act, for any period prior to January
1, 2020, is not less than”.

Replacement  of
section  12  of
the  principal
enactment

6. Section  12  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

“Voluntary
registration

12.  (1)  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the
contrary in sections 3 and 10, any person who
supplies  goods  or  services  and  carries  on  a
taxable  activity  or  who  imports  any  taxable
goods  may  make  an  application  to  the
Commissioner-General, in the form specified
by the Commissioner-General, for registration
under this Act,-

(a) for any taxable period prior to January 1,

2013:

Provided however, the Commissioner-
General may after affording the applicant
an opportunity of being heard, and having
regard to the nature of the business carried
on  by  such  applicant,  the  value  of  the
taxable supplies  made by such applicant
in the two preceding taxable periods and

Value Added Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2021

7

the  probability  that  the  value  of  his
taxable supplies will not exceed the value
referred to in section 10, refuse to register
such  applicant;  and

(b) for any taxable period commencing on or
after  January  1,  2020,  in  the  case  of  a
person who supplies goods or services and
carries on a taxable activity.

(2) Any person registered under this section
shall  not  be  eligible  for  registration  with  the
Simplified  Value  Added  Tax  Scheme
administered  by  the  Commissioner-General
unless-

(a) his taxable supply exceeds the total value
of  the  taxable  supplies  referred  to  in
subsection (1) of section 10; or

(b) he  is  an  exporter  who  proves  to  the
satisfaction of the Commissioner-General
that his total supplies have been exported;
or

(c)

such  person  is  willing  to  register  for  the
purpose of the Simplified Value Added Tax
Scheme as a Registered Identified Supplier
as  approved  by  the  Commissioner-
General.”.

7. Section  22  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby

amended as follows:-

(1)

in paragraph (a) of the first proviso to subsection (1)
thereof, by the repeal of sub-paragraphs (iii) and (iv)
and the substitution therefor of the following:-

Amendment
of  section  22
of  the
principal
enactment

“(iii) (a)

rupees  seventy  five  for  any  period
commencing on or after August 16, 2018
but prior to November 1, 2019;

8

Value Added Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2021

(b)

rupees  one  hundred  for  any  period
commencing  on  or  after  November  1,
2019, but prior to January 1, 2021;

(c)

rupees  twenty  five  for  any  period
commencing on or after January 1, 2021,

for each such garment other than panties, socks,
briefs  and  boxer  shorts  identified  under  the
Harmonized  Commodity  Description  and
Coding System Numbers for Custom Purposes;

(iv) (a)

rupees  seventy  five  for  any  period
commencing on or after August 16, 2018,
but prior to November 1, 2019;

(b)

rupees  one  hundred  for  any  period
commencing  on  or  after  November  1,
2019, but prior to January 1, 2021;

(c)

rupees  twenty  five  for  any  period
commencing on or after January 1, 2021,

for six pieces of panties, socks, briefs and boxer
shorts,  identified  under  the  Harmonized
Commodity  Description  and  Coding  System
Numbers for Custom Purposes.”;

(2)

in  subsection  (6)  of  that  section,  by  the  insertion
immediately after paragraph (v), of the following
new paragraph:–(cid:31)

“(vi) if the payment in respect of supply of goods
or services referred to in subsection (1) of
section 7 is not received in foriegn currency
through a bank in Sri Lanka licenced under
the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 within a
period  of  six  months  from  the  end  of  the
taxable  period  of  which  such  exportation
has taken place or supply of such service is
provided, as the case may be.”;

Value Added Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2021

9

(3)

in subsection (14) of that section, by the substitution
for the words and figures “ (14) Where any person”
of the words and figures “(14) For any period prior
to the date of commencement of this (Amendment)
Act where any person”.

8. The  First  Schedule  to  the  principal  enactment  is

hereby amended in PART II as follows: -

(1) in  paragraph  (a)  of  that  PART,  by  the  insertion
immediately  after  item  (xxx)  of  the  following  new
item-

Amendment  of
the  First
Schedule  to  the
principal
enactment

“(xxxi) machinery  and  equipment  including
medical,  surgical  and  dental  instruments,
apparatus,  accessories  and  parts  thereof,
hospital  or  medical  furniture  and  drugs,
chemical and similar items, as recommended
by  the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister assigned the subject of Health, as
required for the provision of health services
to  address  the  COVID  19  pandemic,  with
effect from May 20, 2020.”;

(2) by  the  substitution  in  sub-item  (c)  of  item  (xi)  of
paragraph (b) for the words and figures “on or after
April 1, 2019, other than any lease” of the words and
figures “on or after April 1, 2019 but on or before
November 30, 2019, other than any lease”;

(3) by the insertion immediately after sub-item (c) of item

(xi) of paragraph (b), of the following: -

“(d) if such supply has taken place on or after December
1, 2019, by any person, other than any lease or
rent of residential accommodation.”;

(4) by the renumbering of item (Li) and (Lii) (as inserted
by  Value  Added  Tax  (Amendment)  Act,  No.25  of
2018) of paragraph (b)as (Lii) and (Liii) respectively;

10

Value Added Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2021

(5) by  the  insertion  immediately  after  the  renumbered

item (Liii) of the followings:-

“(Liv) commencing  on  or  after  January  1,  2020
information  technology  and  enabled
services as shall be prescribed;

(Lv) health  protective  equipment  and  similar
products by any exporter, registered with the
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka established
by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law,
No.4 of 1978, to the Ministry of Health and
Indigenous Medical Services, Department of
Health Services, Sri Lanka Army, Sri Lanka
Navy,  Sri  Lanka  Air  force  and  Sri  Lanka
Police on or after April 29, 2020;

(Lvi) services  in  respect  of  inbound  tours,  by  a
travel  agent  registered  with  the  Sri  Lanka
Tourism  Development  Authority  for  any
period commencing from April 1, 2020;”;

(6) by  the  addition  immediately  after  paragraph  (l)  of

that PART the following:-

“(m)

 with effect from the date of commencement
of this (Amendment) Act, local supply  of
any goods [other than goods referred to in
paragraph  (c)],  which  would  have  been
exempted on importation, if imported.”;.

9. Any person who is authorized to collect the Value
Added  Tax  as  provided  for  in  this  Act  during  the  period
commencing from December1, 2019 and ending on the date
on which the Certificate of the Speaker is endorsed in respect
of this Act, shall be deemed to have acted with due authority
and such collection shall be deemed to have been, and to be,
validly made and such person is hereby indemnified against
all actions, civil or criminal, in respect of such collection:

Validation

Value Added Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2021

11

Provided  that,  the  aforesaid  provisions  shall  not  affect
any decision or Order made by any Court or any proceedings
pending  in  any  Court  in  respect  of  any  tax  collected  as
provided for in this Act during the said period.

10.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

12

Value Added Tax (Amendment)
Act, No. 9 of 2021

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

