ws

Ww

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

————————

TRUST  RECEIPTS  (AMENDMENT)

A

BILL

to amend the Trust Receipts Ordinance (Chapter 86)

——————

Presented by the Minister of  Finance, Economic Stabilization and
National Policies on 09th of January, 2024

(Published in the Gazette on November 10, 2023)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

[Bill No. 228]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

2-

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

2-2d

STATEMENT  OF  LEGAL  EFFECT

Clause  2  :  This  clause  amends  section  4  of  the  Trust  Receipts  Ordinance  (Chapter  86),

and  the  legal  effect  of  the  section  as  amended  is  to  provide  for  the  legal  consequences  of

trust  receipts  registered  under  the  Secured  Transactions Act,  No.    of  2024,  but  not  under

the  Registration  of  Documents  Ordinance  (Chapter  117).

Clause  3  :  This  clause  makes  provisions  in  regard  to  the  period  of  enforceability  of

trust  receipts  already  registered  under  the  Registration  of  Documents  Ordinance  and  the

requirement  of  registering  those  trust  receipts  under  the  Secured  Transactions Act,  No.    of

2024 upon coming into operation of the said Act in order for them to be further enforceable

and  for  their  priority  to  continue  to  prevail.

1

Trust Receipts (Amendment)

L.D.-O. 64/2017

AN ACT AMEND THE TRUST RECEIPTS ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 86)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.  (1)  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Trust  Receipts

(Amendment)  Act, No.    of 2024.

Short  title
and  date  of
operation

5

(2) The provisions of this Act, other than the provisions
of this section, shall come into operation on such date as the
Minister  may  appoint  by  Order  published  in  the  Gazette
(in this Act referred to as the “appointed date”).

10

(3)  The  provisions  of  this  section  shall  come  into
operation on the date on which the Bill becomes an Act of
Parliament.

2. Section 4 of the Trust Receipts Ordinance (Chapter 86)
is hereby amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the
substitution for the words “registered under the Registration
of Documents Ordinance as a bill of sale”, of the words and
figures  “registered  under  the  Secured  Transactions Act,
No.    of  2024 as a bill of sale”.

Amendment
of  section  4
of  Chapter
8 6

3. (1) Where on the appointed date a trust receipt which
has  been  registered  under  the  Registration  of  Documents
Ordinance (Chapter 117) as a bill of sale is in force, such trust
receipt shall, for a period of two years from the appointed
date, continue to be enforceable, but shall be required to be
registered  under  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Secured
Transactions Act, No.    of  2024 as a bill of sale, prior to the
expiration of such period of two years.

(2) A bill of sale referred to in subsection (1) shall, on
being  registered  under  the  Secured  Transactions  Act,
No.   of  2024, be deemed to have been perfected from the date
on which such bill of sale initially became legally enforceable,
and any priority which such bill of sale became entitled to at
the time it initially became legally enforceable, shall continue
to prevail.

Provisions
relating  to
trust
receipts
registered
under  the
Registration
of
Documents
Ordinance

15

20

25

30

2

2

5

 Trust Receipts (Amendment)

          (3) A bill of sale referred to in subsection (1) which is
not registered under the Secured Transactions Act, No. of
2024 prior to the expiration of two years from the appointed
date, shall become legally unenforceable after the expiration
of such period.

    4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

3

DEPARTMENT OF  GOVERNMENT PRINTING

