PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

BALAPITIYA SRI RAHULARAMA PURANA VIHARASTHA
SAMANERA  AKALPA  SANGWARDENA  BIKSHU
VIDYALAYA (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 25 OF 2023

[Certified on 01st of  November, 2023]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November  03, 2023

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

WS 4
PL - 02357

Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana Viharastha
Samanera Akalpa Sangwardena Bikshu
Vidyalaya (Incorporation)
Act, No. 25 of 2023

1

[Certified on 01st of November, 2023]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 3/2021

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE BALAPITIYA SRI RAHULARAMA
PURANA VIHARASTHA SAMANERA AKALPA
SANGWARDENA BIKSHU VIDYALAYA

WHEREAS  a  Vidyalaya  called  and  known  as  the
“Balapitiya  Sri  Rahularama  Purana  Viharastha  Samanera
Akalpa Sangwardena Bikshu Vidyalaya” has heretofore been
established in Sri Lanka  for the purpose of effectually carrying
out its objects and transacting all  matters connected with the
said  Vidyalaya  according  to  the  rules  agreed  to  by  its
members:

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Vidyalaya  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to
grant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

Preamble

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Balapitiya  Sri
Rahularama  Purana  Viharastha  Samanera  Akalpa
Sangwardena Bikshu Vidyalaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 25
of 2023.

Short  title

2.

(1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Balapitiya  Sri  Rahularama  Purana  Viharastha  Samanera
Akalpa Sangwardena Bikshu Vidyalaya (hereinafter referred
to  as  the  “Vidyalaya”)  and  shall  hereafter  be  admitted  as
members of the body corporate hereby constituted shall have
perpetual  succession  under  the  name  and  style  of  the
“Balapitiya  Sri  Rahularama  Purana  Viharastha  Samanera
Akalpa Sangwardena Bikshu Vidyalaya” (hereinafter referred
to as the “body corporate”), and by that name may sue and be
sued with  full power and authority to have, and use a common
seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporation
of  the
Balapitiya  Sri
Rahularama
Purana
Viharastha
Samanera
Akalpa
Sangwardena
Bikshu
Vidyalaya

2

Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana Viharastha
Samanera Akalpa Sangwardena Bikshu
Vidyalaya (Incorporation)
Act, No. 25 of 2023

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Services Organization within the meaning and for the
purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Service  Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions  of  that  Act  shall  apply  to  and  in  relation  to  the
management of the affairs of the body corporate.

General  objects
of  the  body
Corporate

3. The general objects for which the body corporate is
constituted are hereby declared to be to assist the relevant
authorities  to—

(a)

embed  the  desired  course  of  conduct  of  a  novice
Samanera  Bhikku  in  to  the  lives  of  Samanera
Bhikku, as a life practice;

(b) provide  knowledge  to  the  Samanera  Bhikku  in

relation to –

(i)

the  basic  elements  of  the  life  of  a  novice
Samanera Bhikku;

(ii)

the  customs  of  partaking  alms,  pindapatha,
(gathering  alms  by  visiting  households),
bathing  and  sleeping;  and

(iii)

the life of Lord Buddha and selected stories
of the Buddha Sasana;

(c)

train  the  Samanera  Bhikku  of  the  correct  way  of
worshiping  Buddha,  performing  Bodhi  Puja  and
uttering Pin Wakya; and

(d) provide basic knowledge on the subjects of Sinhala
Pali,  Sanskrit,  Tamil  and  English  languages  and
Mathematics to the Samanera Bhikku.

Body  corporate
to  ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of
Ministry  or
Department  of
the  Government
or  Provincial
Council

Management  of
affairs  of  the
body  corporate

Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana Viharastha
Samanera Akalpa Sangwardena Bikshu
Vidyalaya (Incorporation)
Act, No. 25 of 2023

3

4. The  objects  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  carried
out in such manner so as not to create any conflict between
the work of the body corporate and any work being carried
out simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of  the
Government or of any Provincial Council.

5. 

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules
made under section 7, the management and administration
of the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by a
Committee of  Management (hereinafter referred to as the
“Committee”) consisting of such number of office bearers as
may be specified by the rules made under section 7.

(2) (a) The Committee of the Vidyalaya holding office on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall, subject  to the rules made under paragraph
(b), function as an Interim Committee of the body corporate
until the first Committee is appointed or elected in the manner
provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b)    Subject  to  the  provisions  of  section  7,  the  Interim
Committee  of  the  body  corporate  shall  have  the  power  to
make rules for the interim administration of the body corporate
and for election or appointment of the members of the first
Committee of the body corporate, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law.

(c)  Any decision of the Interim Committee shall be taken

by the majority of its members present at such meeting.

(d)  The first Committee of the body corporate shall be
appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Committee including the

4

Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana Viharastha
Samanera Akalpa Sangwardena Bikshu
Vidyalaya (Incorporation)
Act, No. 25 of 2023

patrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a period
of three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisor
shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapse
of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Committee shall having regard to the rules of the
body corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term of
office of the member whom he succeeds.

Powers  of  the
body  corporate

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessary
or disrable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects of
the body corporate or any one of them, including the power–

(a)

(b)

to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwise
obtain  lands  or  buildings  which  may  be  required
for the purposes of the body corporate and to deal
with  or  dispose  of  the  same  as  may  be  deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;

to  enter  into  and  perform  or  carry  out,  whether
directly or through any officer or agent authorized
in  that  behalf  by  the  body  corporate,  all  such
contracts or agreements as may be necessary for the
attainment of the objects or the exercise of the powers
of the body corporate;

(c)

to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind :

Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana Viharastha
Samanera Akalpa Sangwardena Bikshu
Vidyalaya (Incorporation)
Act, No. 25 of 2023

5

Provided  that,  the  Committee  shall  obtain  the
prior written approval of the Department of External
Resources in respect of all foreign grants, gifts or
donations made to the body corporate;

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close accouts in
any  bank;

to  invest  any  funds  that  are  not  immediately
required for the purposes of the body corporate, in
such manner as the Committee may determine;

to  undertake,  accept,  execute,  perform  and
administer any lawful trust having objects similar
to  the  body  corporate  or  any  real  or  personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;

to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servents of the body corporate and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the body corporate;

(h)

to  liaise  and  co-ordinate  with  other  local  and
foreign  institutions  having  similar  objects  to  that
of the body corporate; and

(i) generally  to  do  all  such  acts  and  things  for  the
achievement of the objects of the body corporate.

6

Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana Viharastha
Samanera Akalpa Sangwardena Bikshu
Vidyalaya (Incorporation)
Act, No. 25 of 2023

Rules  of  the
body  corporate

7.

(1)  It  shall  be  lawful  for  the  body  corporate,  from
time to time at any general meeting of the body corporate
and by a majority  of not less than two-thirds of the members
present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal,  expulsion  or  resignation  of  members
and fees payable by the members;

the election of office bearers of the Committee or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;

the  terms  and  conditions  of  appoinment,  powers,
functions and duties of various officers and servants
of the body corporate;

the  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  summoning
and holding of meetings of the body corporate and
of  the  Committee  or  notices  and  agenda  of  such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;

the  qualifications  and  disqualifications  to  be  a
member of the Committee and the body corporate;

the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate; and

(g) generally the management of the affairs of the body
corporate  and  the  accomplishment  of  its’  objects
and dissolution of the body corporate.

(2)  Any  rule  made  by  the  body  corporate  may  be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like  meeting
and in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of
this  section.

Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana Viharastha
Samanera Akalpa Sangwardena Bikshu
Vidyalaya (Incorporation)
Act, No. 25 of 2023

7

(3)  The    rules  made  under  subsection  (1),  shall  be
published in the Gazette within three months upon making
of such rules and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

(4) The members of the body corporate shall at all times

be subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8. The Committee shall maintain a register of members
in  which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members shall be inscribed.

Register  of
members

9.

(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

Fund  of  the
body  corporate

(2)  All  moneys  received  by  way  of  gifts,  bequests,
donations,  subscriptions,  contributions,  fees  or  grants  for
and on account of the body corporate shall, subject to the
provisions of section 6(c), be deposited in one or more banks
approved  by  the  Committee  to  the  credit  of  the  body
corporate.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums of
money as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by
the  body  corporate  in  the  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.

(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
Auditing

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  the  Auditor  General  or  a  qualified  auditor
appointed by the Auditor General in terms of provisions of
Article  154  of  the  Constitution  and  be  certified  by  the
Auditor  General  or  a  qualified  auditor  appointed  by  the
Auditor General.

8

Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana Viharastha
Samanera Akalpa Sangwardena Bikshu
Vidyalaya (Incorporation)
Act, No. 25 of 2023

(4)  For  the  purposes  of  this  section  “qualified  auditor”

means–

(a)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other  institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or

(b)

a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners of
which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  of  any  other  institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice as
an Accountant, issued by the Council of such Institute.

11.

(1)  The  Committee  shall  prepare  a  report  of  the
activities of the body corporate for each financial year and
submit  such  report  together  with  the  audited  statement  of
accounts certified by the Auditor-General or qualified auditor
appointed  by  the  Auditor-General,  to  the  Secretary  to  the
Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of Education
under Article 43 or 44 of the Constitution, as the case may
be,  and  to  the  Registrar  of  Voluntary  Social  Service
Organizations  appointed  under  the  Voluntary  Social
Services Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act,
No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of the
year succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreign
and local moneys received by the body corporate during the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).

Annual  Report

Debts  due  by
and  payable  to
the  vidyalaya

12. All  debts  and  liabilities  of  the  Vidyalaya  existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  body  corporate  hereby

Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana Viharastha
Samanera Akalpa Sangwardena Bikshu
Vidyalaya (Incorporation)
Act, No. 25 of 2023

9

constituted  and  all  debts  due  to  and  subscriptions  and
contributions payable to the Vidyalaya on that day shall be
paid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

13. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall be able and capable in
law to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the body corporate for the purpose
of  this  Act  and  subject  to  the  rules  of  the  body  corporate
made under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Body  corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

14. The  moneys  and  property  of  the  body  corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion of the objects of the body corporate and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwise howsoever to
the members of the body corporate.

Application  of
moneyes  and
property

15.

(1)  The  Seal  of  the    body  corporate  shall  not  be
affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence
of two members of the Committee, who shall sign their names
to the instrument in token of their presence and such signing
shall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the  body
corporate

(2) The Seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Committee as may be decided by
the Committee.

16.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  body  corporate
there  remains  after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be  distributed  among  the  members  of  the  body  corporate,

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

10

Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana Viharastha
Samanera Akalpa Sangwardena Bikshu
Vidyalaya (Incorporation)
Act, No. 25 of 2023

but  shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  any  other  appropriate
institution  having  objects  similar  to  those  of  the  body
corporate, and which is by the rules thereof,  prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its members.

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  subsection  (1)  the  appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at  a  general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic

17. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case  of
inconsistency

18.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Balapitiya Sri Rahularama Purana Viharastha
Samanera Akalpa Sangwardena Bikshu
Vidyalaya (Incorporation)
Act, No. 25 of 2023

11

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

