PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————

TRUST  RECEIPTS  (AMENDMENT)

A

BILL

to amend the Trust Receipts Ordinance (Chapter 86)

——————

Presented by the Minister of Justice and Prison Reforms
on 18th of September, 2019

(Published in the Gazette on July 15, 2019)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

[Bill No. 299]

————————

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

STATEMENT  OF  LEGAL  EFFECT

Clause 2:  This  clause  amends  section  4  of  the  Trust  Receipts  Ordinance  (Chapter  86),  and
the  legal  effect  of  the  section  as  amended  is  to  provide  for  the  legal  consequences  of  trust
receipts  registered  under  the  Secured  Transactions  Act,  No.      of  2019,  but  not  under  the
Registration  of  Documents  Ordinance.

Clause  3:  This  clause  makes  provisions  in  regard  to  the  period  of  enforceability  of  trust
receipts already registered under the Registration of Documents Ordinance and the requirement
of  registering  those  trust  receipts  under  the  Secured  Transactions  Act,  No.        of  2019  upon
coming  into  operation  of  the  said  Act  in  order  for  them  to  be  further  enforceable  and  for
their  priority  to  continue  to  prevail.

Trust Receipts (Amendment)

1

L. D.- O. 64/2017

AN ACT TO AMEND THE TRUST RECEIPTS ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 86)

BE  it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Trust  Receipts
(Amendment)  Act,  No.            of  2019  and  shall  come  into
operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette.

5

Short  title
and  date  of
operation.

10

15

20

25

2. Section  4  of  the  Trust  Receipts  Ordinance
(Chapter  86)  is  hereby  amended  in  subsection  (1)  of  that
section, by the substitution for the words “registered under
the Registration of Documents Ordinance as a bill of sale”,
of  the  words  and  figures  “registered  under  the  Secured
Transactions Act, No.     of 2019 as a bill of sale”.

Amendment
of  section  4
of
Chapter  86.

3.

(1) Where on the date of coming into operation of
this Act, a trust receipt which has been registered under the
Registration of Documents Ordinance as a bill of sale is in
force, such trust receipt shall, for a period of two years from
the date of coming into operation of this Act, continue to be
enforceable,  but  shall  be  required  to  be  registered  under
the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Secured  Transactions
Act, No.     of 2019 as a bill of sale, prior to the expiration of
such two years period.

Provisions
relating  to
trust  receipts
registered
under  the
Registration
of
Documents
Ordinance.

(2)  A  bill  of  sale  referred  to  in  subsection  (1)  shall,
on  being  registered  under  the  Secured  Transactions
Act, No.      of 2019, be deemed to have been perfected from
the date on which such bill of sale initially became legally
enforceble, and any priority which such bill of sale became
entitled to at the time it initially became legally enforceable,
shall continue to prevail.

2

Trust Receipts (Amendment)

(3) A bill of sale referred to in subsection (1) which is not
registered under the Secured Transactions Act, No.    of 2019
prior to the expiration of two years from the date of coming
into operation of this Act, shall  become legally unenforceable
after the expiration of such period.

5

4.

In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency.

Trust Receipts (Amendment)

3

Department  of  Government  Printing

