PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

WAGES  BOARDS  (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No. 14  OF  2019

[Certified on 24th of  September, 2019]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 27, 2019

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Wages Boards (Amendment)
Act, No. 14 of 2019

1

[Certified on 24th of September, 2019]

L.D.—O. 55/2009

AN ACT TO AMEND THE WAGES BOARDS ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Wages  Boards

Short  title.

(Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 2019.

2. Section  4  of  the  Wages  Boards  Ordinance
(Chapter  136)  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended as follows:—

Amendment  of
section  4  of
Chapter  136.

(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following:—

“(1) Every employer who fails to comply with
any provisions of this section of this Part shall be
guilty of an offence and shall be liable to a fine not
less than five thousand rupees and not exceeding
ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding one year or to
both such fine and imprisonment.”;

(2)

in subsection (2A) of that section—

(a)

in  paragraph  (d)  of  that  section  by  the
substitution for the words “of such sum.”
of the words “of such sum;”;

(b) by  the  addition  immediately  after
paragraph  (d)  of    that  section  of  the
following new paragraph:—

“(e) where such sum is in arrears for a
period  exceeding  twenty  four

2

Wages Boards (Amendment)
Act, No. 14 of 2019

months  a  surcharge  of  ten  per
centum thereafter for each period
of twelve months.”.

Amendment  of
section  41  of  the
principal
enactment.

3. Section  41  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  in  subsection  (2)  thereof  by  the  substitution  for
the words “four years commencing” of the words “six years
commencing”.

Amendment  of
section  44  of  the
principal
enactment.

4. Section  44  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  by  the  repeal  of  subsections  (1)  and  (2)  of  that
section and the substitution therefor of the following:—

“(1) Every employer who fails to pay wages to any
worker in accordance with the provisions of section 21,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable to a fine
not  less  than  five  thousand  rupees  and  not  exceeding
ten  thousand  rupees  or  to  imprisonment  of  either
description of a term not exceeding one year or to both
such  fine  and  imprisonment,  and  shall  in  addition,  be
liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  five  hundred  rupees  for
each  day  on  which  the  offence  is  continued  after
conviction.

(2) Every employer, other than an employer referred
to in subsection (1), who fails to make to any worker,
any  payment  in  accordance  with  any  provision  of  this
Part  of  this  Ordinance  or  of  any  decision  of  a  Wages
Board, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable to
a  fine  not  less  than  five  thousand  rupees  and  not
exceeding  ten  thousand  rupees  or  to  imprisonment  of
either description for a term not exceeding one year or to
both  such  fine  and  imprisonment,  and  to  a  fine  not
exceeding  five  hundred  rupees  for  each  day  on  which
the offence is continued after conviction.”.

Amendment  of
section  46  of  the
principal
enactment.

5. Section  46  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended in subseciton (1)  of that section by the substitution
for the words “during the four years”,  of the words “during
the six years”.

Wages Boards (Amendment)
Act, No. 14 of 2019

3

6. Section  48  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended in subseciton (1)  of that section by the substitution
for the words “to a fine not exceeding five hundred rupees”,
of the words “to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees”.

7. Section  50  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended in subseciton (1)  of that section by the substitution
for the words “not exceeding two hundred rupees” and the
words “not exceeding three months”, of the words “not less
than  five  thousand  rupees”  and  the  words  “not  exceeding
twelve months” respectively.

8. Section  51  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “not exceeding
two  hundred  rupees”  and  the  words  “not  exceeding  three
months” of the words “not less than five thousand rupees”
and the words “not exceeding twelve months” respectively.

9. Section  56  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended in paragraph (c)  of that section by the substitution
for the words “within four years” of the words “within six
years”.

10. Section  58  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  in  the  succeeding  paragraph  to  paragraph  (g)  of
that section by the substitution for the words “not exceeding
one  thousand  rupees”  and  the  words  “not  exceeding  six
months” of the words “not less than twenty thousand rupees”
and the words “not exceeding twelve months” respectively.

11. Section  59A  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor:—

“Special
provisions
applicable
where
persons  are
employed  to
do  work
under  any
arrangement
made  by  way
of  trade  or
any
commercial
purpose.

59A.  (1)  Where  any  person  enters  into  a
contract  or  work  arrangement  expressed  or
implied, for trade or commercial purposes, with
any  other  person  who  employs  workers  to
perform  work  on  a  regular  basis  which  is  an
integral  part  of  the  business  activities  of  the
first-mentioned  person,  and  such  person
employs workers pursuant to the said contract
or work arrangement, such contract  or work
arrangement  shall  be  deemed  to  amount  to  a
disguised  employment  relationship.

Amendment  of
section  48  of
the  principal
enactment.

Amendment  of
section  50  of
the  principal
enactment.

Amendment  of
section  51  of
the  principal
enactment.

Amendment  of
section  56  of
the  principal
enactment.

Amendment  of
section  58  of
the  principal
enactment.

Replacement  of
section  59A  of
the  principal
enactment.

4

Wages Boards (Amendment)
Act, No. 14 of 2019

(2) Where the Commissioner is of opinion,
after due inquiries, that such contract or work
arrangement is in fact a disguised employment
relationship, he shall in writing direct the first-
mentioned person referred to in subsection (1)
to  refrain  from  having  such  work  executed
under such contract or arrangement  in respect
of such workers.

(3) A person who has been aggrieved by a
directive  made  in  respect  of  him  under
subsection (2) shall have a right to appeal to
the  Special  Employment  Relations  Tribunal
established under section 59B of this Act within
thirty  days  of  the  making  of  such  directive.
The  Special  Employment  Relations  Tribunal
shall thereafter summon all parties concerned
and make a determination affirming or rejecting
the directive of the Commissioner.”.

Insertion  of
sections  59B,
59C,  and  59D  in
the  principal
enactment.

12. The  following  new  sections  are  hereby  inserted
immediately  after  section  59A  of  the  principal  enactment
and shall have effect as sections 59B, 59C, and 59D of that
enactment:—

“Establishment
of  a  Special
Employment
Relations
Tribunal.

59B. (1) There shall be established a Special
Employment  Relations  Tribunal  (hereinafter
referred  to  as    the  “Tribunal”)  for  the
determination of appeals made to the Tribunal
by any aggrieved person in terms of subsection
(3) of section 59A.

(2)  The  Tribunal  shall  consist  of  three
members to be appointed by the Minister. The
three  members  shall  be  persons  who  have  a
wide knowledge and experience in the field of
labour laws and one of whom shall be a retired
Judge of the Supreme Court or Court of Appeal
of Sri Lanka who shall be the Chairman of the
Tribunal.

Wages Boards (Amendment)
Act, No. 14 of 2019

5

(3)  A  member  of  the  Tribunal  shall  hold
office for a period of three years and shall be
eligible for reappointment.

(4) Any member may at any time resign his
office by a letter to that effect addressed to the
Minister and such resignation shall take effect
upon it being accepted by the Minister.

(5)  Where  any  member  vacates  office  by
resignation, removal, death or of his inability
to hold office on account of ill health or absence
from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister
may  appoint  another  person  in  his  place  in
terms  of  subsection  (2)  and  the  person  so
appointed  may  hold  office  for  the  unexpired
period of term of office of the member whom
he succeeds.

(6) The Minister may remove any member

of the Tribunal for reasons assigned.

(7) There shall be a Secretary to the Tribunal
appointed  by  the  Commissioner  who  shall
maintain records of the Tribunal and attend to
any  such  other  work  assigned  to  him  by  the
Tribunal  and  the  Commissioner  relating  to
functions of the Tribunal.

(8)  The  Commissioner  may  appoint  such
officers  and  servants  as  are  necessary  to
facilitate the functions of  the Tribunal.

(9) The members of the Tribunal may be paid
such  remuneration  as  the  Minister  may
determine in consultation with the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance.

6

Wages Boards (Amendment)
Act, No. 14 of 2019

Power  and
functions  of
the  Tribunal.

Power  of
Commissioner
to  institute
action.

59 C.  (1)  The  Tribunal  shall  hear  and
determine  the  appeals  made  to  it  under
subsection  (3)  of  section  59A  in  accordance
with the principles of natural justice. On making
a  decision,  the  Chairman  shall  fourthwith
inform  the  Commissioner  and  the  parties  of
the  decision.

(2) The Commissioner shall upon receipt of
the decision of the Tribunal, cause the same to
be published in the Gazette.

(3)  The  decision  shall  be  effective  as
between the parties with effect from the date of
publication in the Gazette or from such date as
may be specified therein.

59D. Any person who fails to comply with
any  directive  of  the  Commissioner  under
section 59A, or does any act in violation of the
decision of the Tribunal under section 59C shall
be guilty of an offence and the Commissioner
or  any  person  duly  authorized  by  him  in
writing may institute action in the appropriate
Magistrate’s Court against such person.”.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency.

13. 

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Wages Boards (Amendment)
Act, No. 14 of 2019

7

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

