PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SRI  SHAKYASINHARAMA  VIHARASTHA

KARYASADHAKA  SANVIDANAYA
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 15 OF 2022

[Certified on 18th of May, 2022]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 20, 2022

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 20.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Sri  Shakyasinharama  Viharastha  Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 2022

1

[Certified on 18th of May, 2022]

L.D.–O. (Inc.) 19/2017

AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  SRI  SHAKYASINHARAMA
VIHARASTHA  KARYASADHAKA  SANVIDANAYA

WHEREAS  an  Organization  called  and  known  as  the
“Sri  Shakyasinharama  Viharastha  Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya” has heretofore been established in Sri Lanka
for  the  purpose  of  effectually  carrying  out  its  objects  and
transacting all matters connected with the said Organization
according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Organization  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to
grant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Sri  Shakyasinharama
Viharastha  Karyasadhaka  Sanvidanaya  (Incorporation)
Act, No. 15 of 2022.

Short  title

2.

(1) From  and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha Karyasadhaka Sanvidanaya
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Organization”)  and  shall
hereafter be admitted as members of the body corporate hereby
constituted shall have perpetual succession under the name
and  style  of  the  “Sri  Shakyasinharama  Viharastha
Karyasadhaka Sanvidanaya” (hereinafter referred to as the
“body corporate”), and by that name may sue and be sued
with full power and authority to have, and use a common seal
and to alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporation  of
the  Sri
Shakyasinharama
Viharastha
Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya

2

Sri  Shakyasinharama  Viharastha  Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 2022

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Service Organization within the meaning and for the
purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Services  Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions  of  that  Act  shall  apply  to  and  in  relation  to  the
management of the affairs of the body corporate.

General  objects
of  the  body
corporate

3. The general objects for which the body corporate is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

(a)

(b)

to  attend  activities  on  religious  development  and
the development of the persons;

to  develop,  protect  and  conserve  Sri
Shakyasinharamaya  and other associated temples;

(c)

to  promote  and  foster  humanitarian  ideas,  good
values and morals;

(d)

(e)

(f)

to carry out awareness programmes for the general
public  including  school  children  of  the  value  of
acquiring knowledge in Sinhala, English,  Sanskrit
and  other  languages,  computer  and  technical
knowledge;

to  implement  cultural  programmes  aiming  at  the
participation of the members of the public in such
programmes; and

to  extend  support  to  services  rendered  by  senior
citizens’  organizations  and  to  encourage  such
organizations.

Body  corprate  to
ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of  Ministry
or  Department  of
the  Government
or  any  Provincial
Council

Management  of
the  affairs  of  the
body  corporate

Sri  Shakyasinharama  Viharastha  Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 2022

3

4. The  objects  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  carried
out in accordance with written law and in such manner so as
not  to  create  any  conflict  between  the  work  of  the  body
corporate  and  any  work  being  carried  out  simultaneously
by any Ministry or Department of the Government or of any
Provincial Council or any Local Authority.

5.

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, and the rules
made under section 7, the management and administration
of the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by a
Board of  Management (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”)
consisting  of  such  number  of  office  bearers  as  may  be
specified by the  rules made under section 7.

(2)(a)  The  members  of  the  Board  of  the  Organization
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act shall, subject to the rules made
under  paragraph  (b),  function  as  an  Interim  Board  of  the
body corporate until the first Board is appointed or elected
in the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  section  7,  the  Interim
Board of the body corporate shall have the power to make
rules  for  the  interim  administration  of  the  body  corporate
and for election or appointment of the members of the first
Board  of  the  body  corporate,  not  inconsistent  with  the
provisions of this Act or any other written law.

(c) Any decision of the Interim Board shall be taken by

the majority of its members present at such meeting.

(d)  The  First  Board  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be
appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

(3)(a)    Every  office  bearer  of  the  Board  including  the
patrons  and  advisors,  shall  be  appointed  or  elected  for  a

4

Sri  Shakyasinharama  Viharastha  Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 2022

period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or
advisor  shall  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  or  re-election
after lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer,  the  Board  shall,  having  regard  to  the  rules  of
the  body  corporate,  elect  or  appoint  a  person  to  fill  such
vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.

Powers  of  the
body  corporate

6. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  any
other written law, the body corporate shall have the power
to  do,  perform  and  execute  the  following  acts  for  the
achievement of the objects of the body corporate:–

(a)

(b)

to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwise
obtain  lands  or  buildings  which  may  be  required
for the purposes of the body corporate and to deal
with or dispose of the same as may be determined
by the Board with a view to promoting the objects
of the body corporate;

to  enter  into  and  perform  or  carry  out,  whether
directly or through any officer or agent authorized
in  that  behalf  by  the  body  corporate,  all  such
contracts or agreements as may be necessary for the
attainment  of  the  objects  or  the  exercise  of  the
powers of the body corporate;

(c)

to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind:

Sri  Shakyasinharama  Viharastha  Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 2022

5

Provided  that,  the  Board  shall  obtain  the  prior
written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources in respect of all foreign grants, gifts or
donations made to the body corporate;

to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts
in any bank in Sri Lanka approved by the Board;

to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for  the  purposes  of  the  body  corporate,  in  such
manner as the Board may determine;

to  undertake,  accept,  execute,  perform  and
administer any lawful trust having objects similar
to the objects of the body corporate or any real or
personal  property  with  a  view  to  promoting  the
objects of the body corporate;

to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the body corporate and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the body corporate;

to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a  view  to  promoting  the  objectives  of  the  body
corporate;

to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions  having  similar  objects  to  that  of  the
body corporate; and

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

(j)

to train officers and servants in Sri Lanka or abroad
for the purposes of the body corporate.

Rules  of  the
body  corporate

6

Sri  Shakyasinharama  Viharastha  Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 2022

7. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the body corporate and by
a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and  voting,  to  make  rules,  not  inconsistent  with  the
provisions  of  this  Act  or  any  other  written  law,  for  the
following matters:—

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by the members;

the  election  of  office  bearers  of  the  Board  or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;

the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions  and  duties  of  various  officers,  and
servants of the body corporate;

the  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  summoning
and holding of meetings of the body corporate or
of  the  Board,  or  notices  and  agenda  of  such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;

the  qualifications  and  disqualifications  to  be  a
member of the Board and the body corporate;

the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate;

the procedure governing the manner of liaising and
coordinating  with  other  local  and  foreign
institutions  having  objects  similar  to  that  of  the
body corporate; and

Sri  Shakyasinharama  Viharastha  Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 2022

7

(h) generally the management of the affairs of the body
corporate  and  the  accomplishment  of  its’  objects
and dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be published
in the Gazette within three months upon making of such rules
and shall come into effect on the date of such publication.

(4) The members of the body corporate shall at all times

be subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members shall be inscribed.

Register  of
members

9.

(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

Fund  of  the
body  corporate

(2)  All  moneys  received  by  way  of  gifts,  bequests,
donations,  subscriptions,  contributions,  fees  or  grants  for
and on account of the body corporate shall, subject to the
provisions of section 6(c), be deposited in one or more banks
approved by the Board to the credit of the body corporate.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums of
money as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by
the  body  corporate  in  the  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.

(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
auditing

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept  of  its  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities
and all other transactions of the body corporate.

8

Sri  Shakyasinharama  Viharastha  Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 2022

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  the  Auditor-General  or  a  qualified  auditor
appointed  by  Auditor-General  in  terms  of  provisions  of
Article  154  of  the  Constitution  and  be  certified  by  the
Auditor-General or such qualified auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section, “qualified auditor”

means—

(a)

(b)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of  Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  of  any
other  institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practise as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such institute; or

a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of  which,  being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered Accountants of  Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practise as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such institute.

11.

(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of  the  body  corporate  for  each  financial  year  and  submit
such report together with the audited statement of accounts
and  a list of all assets and liabilities of the body corporate
certified  by  the  Auditor-General  or  a  qualified  auditor
referred  to  in  section  10,  to  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister
assigned the subject of Buddha Sasana under Article 44 or
45  of  the  Constitution    and  to  the  Registrar  of  Voluntary
Social  Services  Organizations  appointed  under  the
Voluntary Social Services Organizations (Registration and
Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of
six months of the year succeeding the year to which such
report relates.

Annual  Report

Sri  Shakyasinharama  Viharastha  Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 2022

9

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreign
and local moneys received by the body corporate, the details
of  all  contracts  and  agreements  entered  into  by  the  body
corporate and the rules of the body corporate made under
section 7 during  the financial year shall be attached to the
report referred to in subsection (1).

12. All debts and liabilities of the Organization existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  body  corporate  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to  and  subscriptions  and
contributions payable to the Organization on that day shall
be paid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable  to
the  Organization

13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the body corporate shall be able and capable in
law to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant,  gift,  testamentary  disposition  or  otherwise,  and  all
such  property  shall  be  held  by  the  body  corporate  for  the
purpose  of  this  Act  and  subject  to  the  rules  of  the  body
corporate made under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Body  corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

14. The  moneys and property of the body corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion  of  the  objects  of  the  body  corporate  and  no
portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  transferred  directly  or
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwise
howsoever to the members of the body corporate.

Application  of
moneys  and
property

15.

(1) The Seal of the  body corporate shall not affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members  of  the  Board  who  shall  sign  their  names  to  the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the  body
corporate

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

10

Sri  Shakyasinharama  Viharastha  Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 2022

(2) The Seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by the
Board.

16.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  body  corporate
there  remains  after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be  distributed  among  the  members  of  the  body  corporate,
but  shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  any  other  appropriate
institution  having  objects  similar  to  those  of  the  body
corporate, and which is by the rules thereof,  prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its members.

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  subsection  (1)  the  appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate with the approval of the Registrar of Voluntary Social
Services Organizations appointed under the Voluntary Social
Services  Organization  (Registration  and  Supervision)  Act,
No. 31 of 1980 immediately before the dissolution at a general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic

17. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

18.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Sri  Shakyasinharama  Viharastha  Karyasadhaka
Sanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 2022

11

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

