PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

NATIONAL EYE BANK TRUST OF SRI LANKA
ACT, No. 22 OF 2023

[Certified on 17th of  October, 2023]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 20, 2023

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 36.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

1

[Certified on 17th of October, 2023]

L.D.–O. 49/2013

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A TRUST CALLED THE
NATIONAL EYE BANK TRUST OF SRI LANKA; TO PROVIDE CORNEAL
TISSUES, ARTIFICIAL DEVICES AND OTHER TISSUES REQUIRED FOR
OPHTHALMIC SURGERY AND FOR SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL RESEARCH
AND EDUCATION; TO SHARE EXCESS CORNEAL TISSUES AND OTHER
TISSUES REQUIRED FOR OPHTHALMIC SURGERY WITH OTHER COUNTRIES
AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERTO .

WHEREAS corneal blindness has been identified as one of
the  major  causes  for  blindness  worldwide  with  highest
prevalence in Asia, and the Ministry of Health of Sri Lanka
has  established  a  National  Eye  Bank  of  Sri  Lanka
accommodated in the Colombo National Eye Hospital since
the  Twenty  Fourth  day  of  February,  Two  Thousand  and
Eleven with a view to alleviating corneal blindness;

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  now  the  Government  of  Sri  Lanka  is
desirous of incorporating the National Eye Bank of Sri Lanka
with a view to alleviating blindness and for the prevention
and control of  avoidable blindness.

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:–

1. This Act may be cited as the National Eye Bank Trust

Short  title

of Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL EYE BANK TRUST OF SRI LANKA

2. (1) There shall be established a Trust to be called the
National Eye Bank Trust of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred
to as “the Trust”).

Establishment  of
the  National
Eye  Bank  Trust
of  Sri  Lanka

2

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

(2)  The  Trust  shall,  by  the  name  assigned  to  it  by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and by that name may sue and be sued.

The  objects  of
the  Trust

3.  The objects of the Trust shall be to –

(a)

(b)

alleviate blindness from Sri Lanka and prevent and
control of  avoidable blindness in Sri Lanka;

function    as  the  National  Eye  Tissue  Bank  of
Sri Lanka;

(c) harvest,  process  and  distribute  corneas  and  other
tissues  required  for  ophthalmic  surgery,  research
and  education  while  adhering  to  medical  and
quality standards and ethics as shall be prescribed
by  regulations,  relating  to  harvesting  and
transplantation of corneal tissues and use of other
tissues required for ophthalmic surgery;

(d)

enhance public awareness in respect of the benefits
and values of donation of corneal tissues and other
tissues required for ophthalmic surgery;

(e)

train Tissue Coordinators to harvest corneal tissues
and other tissues required for ophthalmic surgery;

(f) provide  free  of  charge,  corneal  tissues  and  other
tissues  required  for  ophthalmic  surgery  to
Government Hospitals for transplantations; and

(g) provide corneal tissues and other tissues required
for ophthalmic surgery which are in excess to other
countries and recover from them the processing cost
as may be prescribed:

Provided  however,  in  providing  corneal  and
other tissues in terms of this paragraph, priority shall
be  given,  in  all  instances,  to  requests  made  by
Goverment hospitals and Sri Lankan citizens.

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

3

PART II

THE  BOARD  OF THE NATIONAL EYE BANK TRUST OF SRI LANKA

4. The administration and management of the affairs of
the  Trust  shall  be  vested  in  a  Board  of  Trust  (hereinafter
referred to as “the Board”) consisting of –

(a)

the following ex-officio members, namely–

Establishment  of
the  National  Eye
Bank  Trust
Board  of        Sri
Lanka

(i) the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister
assigned the subject of Health who shall serve
as the Chairman (hereinafter referred to as “the
Chairman”) of the Board;

(ii) the Director-General of Health Services;

(iii) the Director of Colombo National Eye Hospital
or his representative not below the rank of a
Deputy Director;

(iv) a  representative of the Treasury nominated by
the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister
assigned the subject of Finance;

(v) the Chief Judicial Medical Officer of Colombo;

(vi) the  Chief  Accountant  of  the    Ministry  of

Health;

(b)

the following members (hereinafter referred to as
the  “appointed  members”)  appointed  by  the
Minister:–

(i) a representative nominated by the Council of
the College of Ophthalmologists of Sri Lanka,
established  under 
the  Council  of
Ophthalmologists of Sri Lanka (Incorporation)
Act, No.12 of 2000;

(ii) a  medical  practitioner  nominated  by  the  Sri
Lanka  Medical  Council  established  by  the

4

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

Medical Ordinance (Chapter 105), from among
the medical practitioners registered in the Sri
Lanka  Medical  Council  possessing
qualifications  and  expertise  in  the  field  of
ophthalmology;  and

(iii) a person who has proven experience and shown
capacity in  the fields of  law  or  management.

Term  of  office
of  appointed
members

5. (1) Every appointed member shall, unless he vacates
office earlier, hold office for a period of three years from the
date of his appointment:

Provided that, a member appointed by the Minister to
fill a vacancy in the office of an appointed member of the
Board shall unless he vacates office earlier, hold office for
the unexpired portion of the term of office of the member
whom he succeeds.

(2) Any  appointed  member  of  the  Board  who  vacates
office shall, unless he has been removed from office under
section 6, be eligible for re-appointment for not more than
one further term of office, whether consecutive or otherwise.

Removal,
resignation  etc.
of  appointed
members

6. (1) Any appointed member of the Board may at any
time, resign his office by letter in that behalf addressed to
the Minister and such resignation shall take effect from the
date on which the resignation is accepted in writing by the
Minister.

(2)  The  Minister  may,  for  reasons  assigned  therefore
remove any appointed member from office. An appointed
member  who  has  been  removed  from  office  shall  not  be
eligible for re-appointment as a member of the Board or to
serve the Board in any other capacity.

(3)  In  the  event  of  the  vacation  of  office  by  death,
resignation  or  removal  of  any  appointed  member,  the
Minister shall, subject to paragraph (b) of section 4, appoint
another person to fill such vacancy.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

5

(4)  Where  any  appointed  member  of  the  Board  is
temporarily  unable  to  perform  the  duties  of  his  office  on
account  of  ill  health  or  any  other  cause  or  if  he  is  absent
from Sri Lanka for a period of not less than three months, the
Minister shall having regard to the provisions of paragraph
(b) of section 4 appoint any other person to act in place of
such member during his absence.

(5) Where any appointed member of the Board fails to
attend  three  consecutive  meetings  of  the  Board  without
obtaining prior approval for such absence from the Chairman,
such member shall be deemed to have vacated his office at
the conclusion of the third meeting and the Minister shall
appoint another person to fill such vacancy in the manner
provided for in subsection (3).

7. Any person –

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

if such person is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri
Lanka;

if such person is or becomes a member of Parliament
or a Provincial Council or any Local Authority;

if  such  person  has  any  financial  or  other  interest
which  may  affect  the  discharge  by  him  of  his
functions as a member of the Board;

if such person is under any law in force in Sri Lanka
or in any other country found or declared to be of
unsound  mind;

if such person is serving or has served a sentence of
imprisonment imposed by any court in Sri Lanka
or any other country,

he shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuing
to be a member of the Board.

Disqualification
for  being  a
member

6

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

Meetings  of  the
Board

8. (1) If the Chairman is present at a meeting of the Board,
he  shall  preside  at  such  meeting.  In  the  absence  of  the
Chairman from any meeting, the Director-General of Health
Services shall preside such meeting.

(2) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Board
may regulate the procedure in regard to its meetings and the
transaction of business at such meetings.

(3) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be five

members.

(4)  Where  there  is  an  equality  of  votes,  the  Chairman

shall in addition to his vote have a casting vote.

9. No act or proceeding of the Board shall be invalid by
reason only of any vacancy among its members or any defect
in the appointment of any of its members.

Vacancy  among
members  not  to
invalidate  acts
and  proceedings
of  the  Board

Special  and
general
directions  to  be
issued  by  the
Minister

10. The Minister may, from time to time, issue such special
or general directions to the Board relating to the exercise,
performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions
under this Act, and it shall be the duty of the Board to give
effect to such directions.

PART III

POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE BOARD

Powers  and
functions  of  the
Board

11. In giving effect to the objects of the Trust and other

provisions of this Act the Board shall have the  power–

(a)

to  harvest,  process  and  distribute  corneal  tissues
collected from donors upon their death, through a
Tissue Coordinator appointed under section 22;

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

7

to  preserve  and  store  corneal  tissues  and  other
tissues required for ophthalmic surgery under such
conditions as may be prescribed;

to  arrange  to  carry  out,  in  consultation  with  the
Director-General  of  Health  Services,  any
ophthalmic  surgery;

to obtain written consent of prospective donors for
donation of corneal tissues upon their death subject
to the provisions of the Transplantation of Human
Tissues  Act,  No.  48  of  1987  and  the  Code  of
Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979;

to recall or downgrade the corneal tissues or other
tissues required for ophthalmic surgery where the
quality of such tissues are not up to the standards as
shall  be  prescribed  by  regulations  to  use  for  the
purpose of this Act;

to maintain in such manner as may be determined
in consultation with the Secretary to the Ministry
of  the  Minister  assigned  the  subject  of  Health,  a
register and a database of the donors of any corneal
or other tissues required for ophthalmic surgery;

to advise the Minister in respect of fees to be levied
from the non-Sri Lankan Nationals in order  to cover
the  costs  relating  to  transplanting  and  processing
of  corneal  tissues  and  other  tissues  required  for
ophthalmic  surgery;

to share corneal tissues and other tissues required
for ophthalmic surgery free of processing charges
as an act of friendship to any foreign country when
so requested by the Minister;

(i)

to  share  expertise  or  technology  relating  to  eye
banking with other countries;

8

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

(j)

(k)

to formulate a code of ethics relating to harvesting
and  transplanting  of  corneal  tissues  based  on
applicable  standards;

to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of  officers and employees and exercise disciplinary
control  over  them  and  to  pay  them  such
remuneration in terms of the scheme of recruitment
prepared  by  the  Board  in  consultation  with  the
Ministry of Health in line with the policy applicable
therefore;

(l)

to design, maintain and use a logo for the National
Eye Bank of Sri Lanka;

(m)

to use where necessary, in letter heads or any other
documents of the National Eye Bank of Sri Lanka,
symbols, signs, marks or letters of any institution
assisting or accrediting the National Eye Bank of
Sri Lanka;

(n) with the concurrence of the Minister, to enter into
agreements  with  foreign  institutions  which  shall
also be State institutions and incorporated bodies
involved in quality assurance and development of
system  relating  to  eye  banking  in  order  to  train
persons on quality assurance and development of
system relating to eye banking;

(o)

(p)

to train the officials of the National Eye Bank of Sri
Lanka in or outside Sri Lanka and to train eye bank
officials  of  other  countries  on  eye  banking  and
transplantation,  and  to  determine  fees  chargeable
from foreign nationals for such training;

to  organize  lectures,  seminars,  workshops  or  any
other  programme  on  ophthalmic  surgery  and
donation  of  corneas  and  other  tissues  and
procedures  to  be  followed  in  respect  of  such
donations  and  surgeries;

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

9

(q)

(r)

to  hold,  take  or  give  on  lease  or  hire,  mortgage,
pledge or sell or otherwise dispose of, any movable
or immovable property belonging to the Trust and
to  construct  buildings  on  any  land  belonging
thereto;

to accept and receive, grants, gifts, donations and
bequests  both  movable  and  immovable,  from
sources in or outside Sri Lanka to the National Eye
Bank Trust Fund and apply them for the discharge
of its functions:

Provided that, the Board shall obtain prior written
approval of the Department of External Resources
in respect of all foreign grants, gifts or donations
made to the Trust;

(s)

to  open  and  maintain  current,  savings  or  other
deposit accounts in any State bank or banks as may
be  determined  by  the  Board  and  to  close  such
accounts;  and

(t) generally, to do such other acts and things as are
authorized  by  this  Act  to  facilitate  the  proper
discharge of the functions of the Board.

12.  The  Trust  shall  be  capable  in  law  to  take  and  hold
property, movable or immovable, which may become vested
in  it  by  virtue  of  any  purchase,  grant,  gift,  testamentary
disposition or otherwise and all such property shall be held
by the Trust for the purposes of this Act.

Power  of  the
Trust  to  hold
property

13.  The  members  of  the  Board  may  be  remunerated  in
such manner as may, from time to time, be determined by the
Minister with the concurrence of the Minister to whom the
subject of Finance has been assigned.

Remuneration  of
members

14. (1) The seal of the Trust shall be in the custody of
such person as the Board may decide, from time to time, and
may be altered in such manner as may be determined by the
Board.

Seal  of  the  Trust

Delegation  of
powers  etc.

10

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

(2)  The  seal  of  the  Trust  shall  not  be  affixed  to  any
instrument  or  document  except  in  the  presence  of  the
Chairman or in his absence any member authorized by the
Chairman in writing in that behalf, and one other member of
the Board. Both such members shall sign the instrument or
document in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(3) The Board shall maintain a register of every instrument

or document to which the seal of the Board is affixed.

15. (1) The Board may subject to such conditions as may
be specified in writing, delegate any of its powers, duties or
functions under this Act to any member of the Board. Such
member  shall  exercise,  perform  or  discharge  such  power,
duty or function subject to any special or general direction
that may be issued by the Board.

(2)  Notwithstanding  any  delegation  made  under
subsection (1), the Board may exercise, perform or discharge
such power, duty or function so delegated.

PART IV

THE NATIONAL EYE  BANK TRUST FUND

Establishment  of
the  National  Eye
Bank  Trust  Fund

16.  (1)  There  shall  be  established  a  Fund  called  the
National  Eye  Bank  Trust  Fund  (hereinafter  referred  to  as
“the Fund”).

(2)  The  management,  administration,  control  and

operation of the Fund shall be vested in the Board.

(3)  There shall be paid into the Fund-

(a)

all  such  sums  of  money  as  may  be  voted  by
Parliament,  from  time  to  time,  for  the  use  of  the
Trust  including  the  initial  grant  and  the  annual
grants of the National Eye Bank of Sri Lanka;

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

11

(b)

(c)

(d)

any  fund  raised,  or  grants,  gifts  or  donations
received, or moneys realized or collected under the
provisions of this Act;

the  sum  of  money  transferred  to  the  Fund  under
subsection (1) of section 30; and

any income from investments or other receipts due
to the Trust.

(4) There shall be paid out of the Fund-

(a)

(b)

all expenses which are necessary for the functioning
and maintenance of the Trust;

all  such  other  payments  as  are  approved  by  the
Board as being necessary for the purpose of carrying
out the objects of the Trust.

17. (1) The financial year of the Trust shall be the calendar

year.

Accounts  and
audit

(2) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts to be
kept of the income and expenditure and all other transactions
of the Trust.

(3)  The  Board  shall  cause  its  books  of  accounts  to  be
balanced as at the thirty-first day of December in each year
and shall, before the thirty-first day of March next, cause to
be prepared, an income and expenditure account and balance
sheet containing a summary of the assets and liabilities of
the Trust made up to the first-mentioned date.

(4) The income and expenditure account and the balance
sheet shall be signed by the members of the Board authorized
to do so by a resolution passed by the Board.

(5)  The  accounts  of  the  Trust  shall  be  audited  by  the
Auditor-General  annually  in  terms  of  Article  154  of  the
Constitution.

Annual  report

12

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

18. (1) The Trust shall within six months of the end of
each financial year submit to the Minister an annual report
on the activities carried out by the Trust together with a list
of its assets and liabilities. The audited accounts of the Trust
for the year along with the Auditor-General’s report shall
also be attached to such report.

(2) The Minister shall within three months from the date
of receipt of the annual report, table such report along with
the document specified in subsection (1) in Parliament for
its  consideration.

 PART V

THE STAFF OF THE TRUST

The  Chief
Executive
Director    to  be
the  Chief
Executive
Officer

19. (1) The Minister shall in consultation with the Board
appoint  to  the  staff  of  the  Trust,  a  person  to  be  the  Chief
Executive Director. The Chief Executive Director shall have
the qualifications and experience as specified by rules made
under this Act.

(2)  The  Chief  Executive  Director  shall,  subject  to  the
general  directions  of  the  Board,  be  charged  with  the
administration of the affairs of the Trust, the exercise and
performance of the powers and duties as may be assigned to
him by the Board, and the administration and control of the
employees of the Trust. The Chief Executive Director shall
be responsible for the execution of all decisions of the Board
and shall function as the Secretary to the Board.

(3) The Chief Executive Director may, with the approval
of the Board, whenever he considers it necessary to do so,
delegate to any employee of the Trust, any power, duty or
function  conferred  or  imposed  upon  him  by  this  Act,  and
such employee shall exercise, discharge and perform such
power,  duty  or  function  subject  to  the  general  or  special
directions  of  the  Chief  Executive  Director.  The  Chief
Executive  Director  may,  notwithstanding  such  delegation

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

13

exercise, discharge and perform any power, duty or function
so delegated under this subsection.

(4) The Minister may after assigning reasons therefore,
remove the Chief Executive Director from office and having
regard to the provisions of subsection (1), appoint another
person to act in his place.

(5) The Chief Executive Director shall hold office for a
period of three years from the date of his appointment and
unless  removed  from  office  under  subsection  (4)  shall  be
eligible for re-appointment, for not more than one further
term, whether consecutive or otherwise.

(6) The Medical Director of the National Eye Bank of Sri
Lanka holding office on the day immediately preceding the
date  of  commencement  of  this  Act,  shall  function  as  the
Chief  Executive  Director  until  the  first  Chief  Executive
Director is appointed in the manner provided for in subsection
(1).

20.  The  Minister,  in  consultation  with  the  Secretary  to
the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of Health
shall  appoint  a  person  who  is  an  ophthalmologist  having
completed  a  Corneal  fellowship  or  has  demonstrated
expertise in external eye diseases, corneal surgery, research
or teaching experience in cornea or external eye diseases or
has experience in corneal transplantations to be the Medical
Director of the Trust.

Medical  Director
of  the  Trust

21.  (1)  At  the  request  of  the  Board,  any  officer  in  the
public service may, with the consent of that officer and of
the Public Service Commission be temporarily appointed to
the staff of the Trust for such period as may be determined
by  the  Board  and  with  like  consent  be  permanently
appointed to such staff.

Appointment  of
officers  and
servants

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Trust,  the  provisions  of

14

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

subsection  (2)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Trust  the  provisions  of
subsection  (3)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.

Appointment  of
Tissue
Coordinators

22.  There  shall  be  appointed  such  number  of  Tissue
Coordinators as may be required for the purposes of this Act
whose  qualifications,  powers  and  functions  shall  be
determined by rules made by the Board.

23. All officers and servants of the Trust shall be deemed
to be public servants within the meaning and for the purposes
of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

Officers    and
servants  of  the
Trust  deemed  to
be  public
servants  under
the  Penal  Code
(Chapter  19)

Protection  for
action  taken
under  this  Act  or
on  the  direction
of  the  Board

24. (1) Any expense incurred by the Trust in any suit or
prosecution brought by, or against the Trust before any court,
shall  be  paid  out  of  the  Fund,  and  any  costs  paid  to,  or
recovered by the Trust in any such suit or prosecution shall
be credited to the Fund.

(2) Any expense incurred by any member of the Board or
any  officer,  servant  or  agent  of  the  Trust  in  any  suit  or
prosecution brought against him in any court in respect of
any act which is done or purported to be done by him under
this Act or on the direction of the Board shall, if the court
holds that such act was done in good faith, be paid out of the
Fund unless such expense is recovered by him in such suit
or prosecution.

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

15

25.  The  Trust  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  scheduled
institution  within  the  meaning  of  the  Bribery  Act  and  the
provisions of that Act shall accordingly apply.

Trust  deemed  to
be  a  scheduled
institution  within
the  meaning  of
the  Bribery  Act

PART VI

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

26. (1) No person shall buy, sell or in any manner dispose
of, for a valuable consideration, any corneal tissue or any
other tissue required for ophthalmic surgery in violation of
the provisions of this Act.

(2)  Any  person  who  contravenes  the  provisions  of
subsection (1) commits an offence under this Act and shall
on  conviction  by  a  Magistrate  be  liable  to  a  fine  not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees, or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not more than two years or both such
fine and imprisonment.

Any  sale,
dealing    or
disposal  of
corneal  tissues
etc.  in  violation
of  this  Act  to  be
an  offence

PART VII

MISCELLANEOUS

27. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all  matters  which  are  stated  or  required  by  this  Act  to  be
prescribed or in respect of all matters for which regulations
are required or authorized to be made by this Act.

Regulations

(2)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  the  powers
specified in subsection (1), the Minister may, in consultation
with the Board make regulations in respect of all or any of
the following :-

(a)

the  procedure  to  be  followed  in  the  collection  of
corneal  tissues  and  other  tissues  required  for
ophthalmic  surgery;

16

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

(b)

(c)

(d)

the  quality  of  corneal  tissues  and  other  tissues
required  for  ophthalmic  surgery  that  are  suitable
for harvesting for the purpose;

the procedure for medical and quality standards to
be  adopted  in  harvesting  and  transplanting  of
corneal tissues;

fees to be charged from non-Sri Lankan nationals
to cover the cost of transplantation and processing
of corneas and other tissues required for ophthalmic
surgery;

(e) procedure  to  be  followed  in  sharing  corneas  and
other tissues required for ophthalmic surgery with
other countries; and

(f) matters  relating  to  the  electronic  submission  of

requests for corneal and other tissues.

(3)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  under  this
section  shall  be  published  in  the  Gazette  and  shall  come
into operation upon such publication or on such later date
as may be specified in the regulation.

(4)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  under  this
section shall within three months from its publication in the
Gazette,  be  brought  before  Parliament  for  approval.  Any
regulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be
rescinded  from  the  date  of  such  disapproval  but  without
prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(5) Notice of the date from which a regulation is deemed

to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

Rules

28. (1) The Board may make rules in respect of all or any
matter for which rules are authorized or required by this Act
to be made.

(2)  Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  the  powers
vested  in  the  Board  under  subsection  (1),  the  Board  may
make rules for the following matters in particular–

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

17

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

to  determine  the  qualifications,  powers  and
functions of the Tissue Coordinators;

to  determine  the  procedures  relating  to  the
distribution  of  corneal  tissues  and  other  tissues
required for ophthalmic surgery to Sri Lankans;

to determine the procedure for the recruitment and
training of Tissue Coordinators; and

to  maintain  registers  which  shall  be  kept  and
maintained under this Act.

(3) Every rule made under this section shall come into

force upon publication in the Gazette.

(4) Every  rule  made  under  this  section  shall  within  a
period of three months from the date of its publication in the
Gazette be brought before Parliament for approval.

(5) Any rule made under this section may be amended or

rescinded when necessary.

29. Sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and
18 of the Transplantation of Human Tissues Act, No. 48 of
1987  shall,  mutatis  mutandis,  apply  in  relation  to  tissues
used under this Act.

Application  of
Transplantation
of  Human
Tissues  Act,  No.
48  of  1987

30. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions contained in the
National Health Development Fund Act, No.13 of 1981, all
such sums of money lying to the credit of the National Eye
Bank of Sri Lanka in the National Health Development Fund
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall be transferred to the Fund.

Savings  and
transitional
provisions

(2) The officers and servants of the National Eye Bank of
Sri Lanka holding office on the day immediately prior to the
date of commencement of this Act, shall, with the consent of
the officers or servants concerned and the Board, be deemed
to be officers or servants of the Trust.

18

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

(3)  All  officers  and  servants  who  have  expressed  their
consent under subsection (2) shall be employed, subject to
the  terms  of  the  scheme  of  recruitment  prepared  by  the
Ministry of Health in accordance with the applicable policy
and  on  terms  not  less  favourable  than  the  terms  of
employment applied to them immediately prior to the date
of commencement of this Act.

(4) Any request for corneal and other tissues made on or
after the date of commencement of this Act but prior to the
date of operation of any regulation made under this Act in
respect of electronics submission of requests for corneal and
other tissues, shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Act,
to  be  validly  made  under  this  Act  and  may  be  addressed
accordingly.

Interpretation

31.  In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

“Minister” means the Minister to whom the subject
of Health is assigned in terms of Article 43 or 44
of  the  Constitution;

“Tissue” shall have the same meaning assigned to it
under  the  Transplantation  of  Human  Tissues
Act, No. 48 of 1987;

“Tissue  Coordinator”  means  any  nursing  officer
registered under the Sri Lanka Medical Council
or the Sri Lanka Nursing Council and performs
retrieval, counseling and tissue coordination in
the Eye Bank.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

32. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

National Eye Bank Trust of
Sri Lanka Act, No. 22 of 2023

19

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

