THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of September 25, 2020

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 25.09.2020)

MINIMUM AGE OF MARRIAGE

(Private Member’s Bill)

A

BILL

to introduce the Minimum Age of Marriage in Sri Lanka

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Premitha Bandara Tennakoon,
 M.P.  for Matale District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Minimum Age of Marriage

1

AN  ACT  TO  INTRODUCE  THE  MINIMUM AGE OF MARRIAGE
IN SRI LANKA

Preamble.

WHEREAS the child or underage marriage is an infringement
of  a  young  person’s  right  to  education,  development  and
security and as such is considered a serious social evil that
may render vulnerable the children of Sri Lanka to forms of
physical  or  mental  violence,  injury  or  abuse,  neglect  or
negligent treatment, maltreatment or exploitation, including
sexual  abuse:

WHEREAS that Sri Lanka guarantees equal protection of the
law to all its people regardless of age, race, religion, language,
caste,  sex,  political  opinion,  place  of  birth  or  any  one  of
such  grounds:

WHEREAS the duty of the State owed to future generations
to ensure that such future generations have the opportunity
to  learn,  develop  and  grow  to  become  a  better  and  more
prosperous society: and

WHEREAS of this Act to afford to all persons under the age
of eighteen all possible protection of the law and to ensure
that no person shall consent or decide on their behalf to enter
them into a marriage and to introduce measures for the relevant
organs of the State give full effect to the spirit and letter of
this Act and thereby convey that the State is committed to
the elimination of child marriage:

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

5

10

15

20

25

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Minimum  Age  of

Short  title.

Marriage Act, No.    of 2020.

2

Minimum Age of Marriage

2. No marriage contracted after the coming into force of
this  Act  shall  be  valid  unless  both  parties  to  the  marriage
have completed eighteen years of age.

Minimum
age  is
eighteen.

Child
marriages  to
be  voidable
at  the
option  of
contracting
party  being  a
child.

5

3.

(i) Every child marriage, whether solemnised before
or after the commencement of this Act, shall be voidable at
the  option  of  the  contracting  party  who  was  a  child  at  the
time of the marriage;

10

(ii)  Provided  that  an  application  for  annulling  a  child
marriage by a decree of nullity may be filed in the District
Court in the local jurisdiction in which the applicant resides
and  by  only  a  contracting  party  to  the  marriage  who  was
child at the time of the marriage;

(iii) If at the time of filing an application, the applicant is
a  minor,  the  application  may  be  filed  through  his  or  her
guardian or next friend;

15

(iv) The application under this section may be filed at any
time  but  before  the  child  filing  the  application  completes
two years of attaining majority;

20

(v) Every application under this section shall be made in
writing  and  shall  be  signed  by  the  applicant  or  the  person
making the application on his behalf and shall be free of any
stamp  duty.  Every  summons  to  a  respondent  or  a  witness
shall also be free of stamp duty;

(vi) Once an application is filed and Court is satisfied on

25

the  application  that—

(a) the applicant had not reached the age of 18 at the

time the marriage was registered; and

(b) that the marriage was registered,

the  Court  shall  make  grant  a  decree  of  nullity  of  such
marriage;

30

Minimum Age of Marriage

3

(vii) While granting a decree of nullity under this section,
the  Court  shall  make  an  order  directing  both  the  parties
to the marriage and their parents or their guardians to return
to    the  other  party,  his  or  her  parents  or  guardian,  as  the
case  may  be,  the  money,  valuables,  ornaments  and  other
gifts received on the occasion of the marriage by them from
the  other  side,  or  an  amount  equal  to  the  value  of  such
valuables, ornaments, other gifts and money:

Provided that no order under this section shall be executed
unless  the  concerned  parties  have  been  given  notices  to
appear  before  the  Court  and  show  cause  why  such  order
should not be passed;

(viii) Where there are children born of the child marriage,
the Court shall make an appropriate order for the custody of
such children. While making an order for the custody of a
child under this section, the welfare and best interests of the
child shall be the paramount consideration to be given by
the  Court;

(ix)  An  order  for  custody  of  a  child  may  also  include
appropriate directions for giving to the other party access to
the child in such a manner as may best serve the interest of
the child, and such  other orders as the Court may, in the
interest of the child, deem proper;

5

10

15

20

25

(x)  The  Court  may  also  make  an  appropriate  order  for
providing maintenance to the child by a party to the marriage
or their parents or guardians.

4. Notwithstanding  that  a  child  marriage  has  been
annulled by a decree of nullity under section 3, every child
begotten  or  conceived  such  marriage  before  the  decree  is
made, whether born before or after the commencement of
this  Act,  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  legitimate  child  for  all
purposes.

30

Legitimacy
of  children
born  of  child
marriages.

4

Minimum Age of Marriage

5.

In this Act—

Interpretation.

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

“child”  means,  any  person  who  has  not
attained the age of eighteen;

“child marriage” means, a marriage to which
either one or both party is a child;

“marriage”  means,  any  marriage,  including
marriages contracted under and by virtue of
the  Kandyan  Marriage  and  Divorce  Act,
No.  44  of  1952  as  amended  and  marriages
contracted between persons professing Islam;

“registrar”  means,  any  District  Registrar  or
Divisional Registrar as appointed in terms of
the  Marriage  Registration  Ordinance,
Kandyan Marriage and Divorce Act and the
Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act.

6. Whoever commits an offence under this section shall
be  liable  on  conviction  after  summary  trial  before  a
Magistrate to the punishment and fine stipulated:—

Offences.

(i) Whoever performs, conducts, directs or abets any
child  marriage  shall  be  punishable  with  rigorous
imprisonment which may extend to two years and
shall be liable to fine not exceeding one hundred
thousand rupees unless he proves that he had reasons
to believe that the marriage was not a child marriage;

(ii) Where a child contracts a child marriage, any person
having  charge  of  the  child,  whether  as  parent  or
guardian  or  any  other  person  or  in  any  other
capacity, lawful or unlawful,  including any member
of  an  organisation  or  associaton  of  persons  who
does any act to promote the marriage or permits it
to be solemnised, or negligently fails to prevent it
from  being  solemnised  including  attending  or

5

10

15

20

25

30

Minimum Age of Marriage

5

participating  in  a  child  marriage,  shall  be
punishable  with  rigorous  imprisonment  not
exceeding  two  years  and  shall  also  be  liable  to  a
fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees;

(iii) Any person who shall knowingly or willfully make
any  false  declaration  to  the  relevant  Registrar  to
the effect that either party has completed eighteen
years of age where such party has not so completed
eighteen years of age, shall be guilty of an offence
punishable with simple imprisonment for any term
not exceeding one year, or with fine not exceeding
fifty thousand rupees, or with both.

7. The  provisions  of  this  Act  shall  have  effect
notwithstanding anything contained in any other written law,
and accordingly in the event of any conflict or inconsistency
between the provisions of this Act and such other law, the
provisions of this Act shall prevail over such other law.

Provisions  of
this  Law  shall
prevail  over
such  other
law.

8.

In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency.

5

10

15

6

Minimum Age of Marriage

Department  of  Government  Printing

