THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

Part II of August 05, 2022

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 10.08.2022)

SMALL  CLAIMS  COURTS’  PROCEDURE

A

BILL

to provide for the procedure to be followed in Small Claims Courts; and
to provide for the matters connected therewith or incidental thereto

Ordered to be published by  the Minister of Justice, Prison Affairs and
Constitutional  Reforms

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 30.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

1

L.D. – O. 44/2021

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PROCEDURE TO BE FOLLOWED IN SMALL
CLAIMS COURTS; AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.

(1) This Act may be cited as the Small Claims Courts’

Procedure Act, No.       of 2022.

Short  title
and  date  of
operation

5

(2) The provisions of this Act shall come into operation
on such date as the Minister may appoint by Order published
in the Gazette.

PART I

ACTIONS

10

15

20

2. Subject to the provisions of section 3 of this Act and
Chapter VA of the Judicature Act, and any pecuniary or other
limitations imposed by any written law, an action for a small
claim shall be instituted in the Small Claims Court within
the local limits of the judicial division in accordance with
the  provisions  of  Chapter  III  of  the  Civil  Procedure
Code:

Institution  of
actions

Provided however, a Small Claims Court shall not have
jurisdiction to hear and determine any action filed under the
provisions of Chapter LIII of the Civil Procedure Code or
any other written law with special provisions to hear matters
for the recovery of money, even if the value of the cause of
action is less than the sum specified or such other amount as
may be fixed by the Minister from time to time in terms of
subsection (2) of section 29A of the Judicature Act.

2

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

3. A cause of action in a Small Claims Court shall be
limited to the provisions of Chapter VA of the Judicature Act
for the sum specified or such other amount as may be fixed
by the Minister from time to time in terms of subsection (2)
of section 29A of the Judicature Act:

Cause  of
action  in  a
Small  Claims
Court

Provided  however,  the  plaintiff  may  join  two  or  more
causes of actions arising out of the same act or transaction
between the same parties, where the value of each cause of
action does not exceed such sum.

4. A  plaintiff  shall  have  the  right  to  abandon  or
relinquish a part of the claim or claims in order to invoke the
jurisdiction  of  a  Small  Claims  Court  and  shall  include  an
averment to the said effect in the plaint.

Abandonment
of  portions
of  the  claim

5. 

In every case where an action has been instituted in
a  District  Court  or  a  Small  Claims  Court  not  having
jurisdiction in terms of Chapter VA of the Judicature Act, the
provisions of section 47 of the Civil Procedure Code shall
apply. In the event the plaint is returned in terms of section
47 of the Civil Procedure Code, notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in any other written law, the period between
the date of the institution of the action and the date of return
of the plaint shall be excluded in computing the period of
prescription.

Where  a
plaint  is
presented  to
a  wrong
court

PART II

PLEADINGS AND SUMMONS

6. The pleadings in a Small Claims Court shall be limited

Pleadings

5

10

15

20

25

to the following:-

(a) the  plaint;

(b) the answer; and

30

(c) the  replication:

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

3

Provided  however,  that  where  there  is  no  claim  in
reconvention,  there  shall  be  no  further  pleadings  beyond
the answer.

7.

(1) Every action shall be instituted in the Small Claims
Court by the plaintiff or his registered attorney on his behalf,
presenting or transmitting to the Small Claims Court by a
duly stamped written plaint in the Form No. 1 set out in the
Schedule hereto, with the appropriate Small Claims Court
which has jurisdiction to hear and determine the action.

Filing  of
plaint

(2) The plaint shall contain the particulars required to be
stated by the provisions of section 40 of the Civil Procedure
Code and the provisions of section 46 of the Civil Procedure
Code  shall  apply  to  such  plaint  filed  in  the  Small  Claims
Court.

8. The plaintiff shall, on presenting the plaint, file an
affidavit or affidavits in support of the facts stated therein
and  produce  the  instrument,  contract,  agreement,  bill  of
exchange, promissory note, cheque or document sued upon
and all other documentary evidence relied upon by him, if
any, in his possession, or power in support of the facts on
which the plaint is based.

Affidavit  and
exhibits  to  be
attached  to  a
plaint

9.

(1) Before the plaint is accepted, the Small Claims
Court may, in its discretion, refuse to entertain the same for
any reason and return the same for amendment or reject the
plaint, as set out in section 46 of the Civil Procedure Code,
in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act.

Issue  and
service  of
summons

(2) Upon such plaint being accepted, the Small Claims
Court shall issue summons in the Form No. 2 set out in the
Schedule hereto.

5

10

15

20

25

30

4

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

(3) The provisions of Chapter VIII of the Civil Procedure
Code shall apply to the issue, service, return and proof of service
of the summons or process of the Small Claims Court, insofar as
they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Part.

10. When  the  defendant  appears  on  the  summons
returnable day, the Judge shall ask the defendant whether he
intends to admit the plaint with or without terms and, if the
defendant admits the claim of the plaintiff, the Small Claims
Court shall record that fact and enter judgement against the
defendant  according  to  the  admission  so  made.  Such
admission shall be in writing, signed by the defendant and
his signature attested by an attorney-at-law.

Judgment
against  the
defendant,  if
he  admits  the
claim  of  the
plaintiff

11.

(1) If the defendant does not admit the plaintiff’s
claim,  he  shall,  himself,  or  his  registered  attorney  on  his
behalf,  deliver  to  the  Small  Claims  Court  a  duly  stamped
written answer signed by the defendant or his attorney-at-
law setting out his defence and any claim in reconvention
which may have against the plaintiff.

Answer  and
requisites  of
answer

(2) The answer shall contain the particulars required to
be  stated  under  the  provisions  of  section  75  of  the  Civil
Procedure Code and the provisions of sections 76 to 78 of
the  Civil  Procedure  Code  shall  apply  to  such  answer  and
shall be in the Form No. 3 set out in the Schedule hereto.

(3) The answer shall be filed within one month from the
date of the appearance made by the defendant either in person
or by an attorney-at-law and no further time shall be granted
by the Small Claims Court to the filing of answer, unless in
appropriate circumstances, the Small Claims Court may grant
time to file answer in the Registry with notice to the plaintiff
or each of the plaintiffs.

12. The defendant shall, on presenting the answer, file
an affidavit or affidavits in support of the answer or the facts
stated  in  the  claim  in  reconvention  and  produce  all

Affidavit  and
exhibits  to  be
attached  to
the  answer

5

10

15

20

25

30

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

5

documents  or  all  other  documentary  evidence  relied  upon
by him, if any, in his possession or power in support of the
defence or facts on which the claim in reconvention is based.

13.

(1)  When  there  is  a  claim  in  reconvention,  a
replication  may  be  permitted  to  be  filed  in  the  Registry
together  with  an  affidavit  or  affidavits  and  documents,  if
any, and the rules relating to a written answer shall apply to
a replication by the plaintiff.

Replication

(2) If the plaintiff admits the claim in reconvention, the
Small Claims Court shall record such admission on record
and require the plaintiff to sign the same. The Small Claims
Court may enter judgment against the plaintiff in respect of
such claim in reconvention according to the admission so
made.  Such  admission  shall  be  in  writing,  signed  by  the
plaintiff and his signature attested by an attorney-at-law.

14. Where  the  claim  in  reconvention  exceeds  the
monetary jurisdiction of the Small Claims Court, the Small
Claims Court may, notwithstanding the sum of claim stated
therein is in excess of the monetary jurisdiction of the Small
Claims  Court,  hear  such  claim  in  reconvention  and  enter
decree according to law, to avoid multiplicity of actions.

Where  the
claim  in
reconvention
is  beyond
monetary
jurisdiction
of  the  Small
Claims  Court

15. All affidavits and the documents which have been
annexed with the answer and the replication shall be served
on the opposing party or parties along with the answer or the
replication.  The  Small  Claims  Court  may  in  its  discretion
impose costs on the defaulting party.

Service  of
answer  and
replication
together  with
affidavits  and
documents

16. No application for the amendment of any pleadings
shall be allowed unless the Court is satisfied, for reasons to
be  recorded  by  the  Court,  that  grave  and  irremediable
injustice will be caused if such amendment is not permitted,
and on no other ground, and that the party so applying has
not been guilty of laches:

Amendment
of  pleadings

5

10

15

20

25

30

6

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

Provided that, the Court may at any time, on an application
being made by any party, correct any clerical or arithmetical
mistakes in the pleadings.

PART III

5

DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE

17.

(1) Any party to the action may make an application
on  or  before  the  date  fixed  for  settlement  in  terms  of
section 22 with notice to all other parties to–

(a) issue commissions;

10

(b) call  for  reports  from  persons  having  special  and

independent knowledge of facts;

Where  a
party  to  the
action
requests  for
commissions,
reports,
certified
copies  and
discovery  of
documents

(c) make order for the discovery, production, inspection
or admittance of the genuineness of documents by
any party thereto of the documents in his possession
or power;

(d) make order for the issuance of certified copies of
any documents in the custody of any public officer,
public  corporation,  Provincial  Council,  any  local
authority,  bank,  board,  body  corporate  or
unincorporate,  partnership,  hospital,  medical
institute,  court,  tribunal  or  any  such  similar
institution;  or

(e) make  such  other  appropriate  orders  in  respect  of
the  discovery  of  documents  in  the  possession  of
any third party as he may think fit or desirable on
any matter where the parties are at variance.

(2) The party who has obtained an order under subsection
(1) shall take steps within two weeks from the date of such
order and in the event such party fails to take such steps, the
Small Claims Court may, notwithstanding such default and
subject to any costs, continue further proceedings.

15

20

25

30

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

7

18.

(1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  section  17,  the
provisions of Chapters XVI and XXIX of the Civil Procedure
Code shall apply to the discovery, production, inspection,
protection or admittance of the genuineness of any document.

5

(2) The provisions of Chapter XXIX of the Civil Procedure
Code shall apply to commissions issued by the Small Claims
Court, so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act.

Discovery,
production,
inspection,
protection  or
admittance  of
the
genuineness
of  documents

10

19. The provisions of sections 94 to 100 (both inclusive)
of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code,  shall  not  apply  to  the
proceedings in the Small Claims Court.

Interrogatories

Documents
discovered
during  the
proceedings
to  be
produced
together  with
affidavit

Settlements

15

20

25

30

20. The Small Claims Court, on its own motion or at the
request of any party, may permit the documents discovered
during the proceedings on matters where the parties are at
variance, but not annexed to the plaint or the answer or the
replication, to be produced with an affidavit.

21.  (1)  The  Small  Claims  Court  shall  forthwith  on  the
filing of the answer or replication, if any, fix a date for the
settlement within a period of four weeks from the date of the
completion of pleadings and it shall be the duty of the Small
Claims Court, before the case is fixed for trial, to persuade
the parties to arrive at a settlement of the dispute, and record
such  settlement  if  any  and  enter  judgement  and  decree
accordingly. If a party fails to be present in person on the
date fixed for settlement without sufficient cause, the Small
Claims Court may order costs against such defaulting party
or parties, unless the parties enter into a settlement on the
same day.

(2) Where the Small Claims Court is of the opinion in any
appropriate  case,  with  the  consent  of  the  parties  the  final
judgement  could  be  pronounced  solely  on  the  pleadings,
affidavits  and  documents  annexed  by  the  parties  without
oral  evidence  and  upon  hearing  all  the  parties  by  way  of

8

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

submissions,  the  Small  Claims  Court  shall  pronounce  the
judgement and enter decree accordingly. If not, the Small
Claims Court may fix the case for trial.

5

22.

(1) If the case cannot be settled between the parties,
the Small Claims Court shall fix the matter for trial and the
provisions of the Civil Procedure Code shall apply to such
trial in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act.

If  no
settlement,
case  to  be
fixed  for  trial

10

(2)  The  provisions  of  Chapter  XVIIA  of  the  Civil
Procedure Code in respect of pre-trial shall not apply to the
proceedings of the Small Claims Court.

PART IV

TRIAL

15

23.

(1) On the date of the trial, the Small Claims Court
shall record admissions between the parties. However, for
the  purposes  of  these  proceedings,  it  is  not  imperative  to
record  issues  of  parties  and  the  Small  Claims  Court  may
proceed  to  hear  and  determine  the  dispute  in  accordance
with the provisions of this Act:

Trial

20

25

Provided that, in the event the Small Claims Court is of
the opinion that issues shall be recorded in view of special
matters involved, the Small Claims Court may on its own
motion proceed to record the said issues arising out of the
pleadings, affidavits and documents, if any, and proceed to
hear the action.

(2) The affidavits filed by the parties with the pleadings
and  additional  affidavits  filed  with  the  permission  of  the
Small Claims Court, shall be considered as the evidence in
chief of the respective party or parties. However, the Small

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

9

Claims  Court  may  permit  the  parties  to  lead  additional
evidence, whether oral or documentary, if it deems necessary
to  obtain  such  evidence  to  enable  it  to  pronounce  a
judgement only where–

5

(a) any  additional  evidence  is  relevant  to  the

determination of the matters in dispute;

10

15

20

25

30

(b) any  additional  evidence  could  not  have  been
obtained and adduced along with pleadings at the
first  instance  with  reasonable  diligence  and  best
efforts and non- production is beyond the control
of such party;

(c) if any additional evidence to be led is documentary,
it is necessary to prove a document of which the
genuineness is impeached by the opposing party;
and

(d) in the event the evidence of official witness or any
other witness who is unable to testify by way of an
affidavit  is  required  to  be  led,  the  parties  shall
takeout summons on the said witness according to
the provisions of this Act.

24.

(1) The Small Claims Court, on an application made
by  any  party  to  the  action  may  permit  to  call  any  other
witness  or  witnesses  not  referred  in  the  pleadings  or  to
produce the documents not annexed to the pleadings in the
interest of justice. Further the Small Claims Court may permit
the parties to lead further evidence on documents discovered
or elicited by way of commissions where it deems necessary.

(2) The provisions of sections 121 and 175 of the Civil
Procedure  Code  shall  not  apply  to  the  proceedings  of  the
Small Claims Court.

Small  Claims
Court  may
summon  any
witness  or
require  the
production
of  any
document
where  the
parties  are  at
variance

(3)  Notwithstanding  any  provision  in  the  Evidence
Ordinance (Chapter 14), the provisions of subsections (1),

10

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

(2), (3) and (4) of section 151A of the Civil Procedure Code
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to examination of a witness
on  an  affidavit,  cross  examination,  re-examination  and
admissibility and authenticity of any document annexed to
such  other  affidavit  in  so  far  as  they  are  not  inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act.

25.

(1) It shall not be necessary to adduce proof of any
document tendered to a Small Claims Court or discovered
under the provisions of this Act, unless the genuineness of
such  document  is  impeached  by  the  opposing  party  with
valid reasons stated therefor according to law.

Proof  of
documents
unnecessary
unless it is
impeached

(2) In the event that the Small Claims Court, after evidence
is led as to the proof of the document, accepts the document,
the  party  who  impeached  the  document  shall  be  liable  to
pay incurred costs of proving such document, in addition to
taxed costs.

26. The provisions of Chapter XX of the Civil Procedure
Code  shall,  insofar  as  they  are  not  inconsistent  with  the
provisions  of  this  Act,  apply  to  and  in  relation  to  the
pronouncement of judgement or decree of the Small Claims
Court.

Judgement
and  decree

27. All proceedings in a Small Claims Court shall be
concluded as expeditiously as possible in accordance with
such law as may be applicable thereto, and a Small Claims
Court shall make every effort to conclude the proceedings
within  eighteen  months  from  the  commencement  of  such
proceedings,  unless  the  Judge  is  prevented  from  acting
accordingly for reasons to be recorded by him.

Expeditious
disposal  of
proceedings

5

10

15

20

25

30

28. The provisions contained in Chapter XII of the Civil
Procedure  Code,  except  in  relation  to  any  appeal  made
against any order made on defaults, shall apply in respect of
the consequences and cure of default of the parties.

Default  of
parties

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

11

PART V

APPEALS

5

10

15

29.

(1)  Any  person  aggrieved  by  a  judgement  of  the
Small Claims Court in any action, proceeding or matter to
which he is a party, may prefer an appeal to the High Court
for  the  Province  established  under  Article  154P  of  the
Constitution against such judgement for any error in fact or
in law.

Appeal  and
stay  of
execution
pending
appeal

(2) Any person aggrieved by an order including the order
setting aside or refusing to set aside the judgement entered
upon default made by any Small Claims Court in the course
of any action, proceeding, or matter to which he is or seeks
to be a party, may prefer an appeal to the High Court for the
Province established under Article 154P of the Constitution
against such order for the correction of any error in fact or in
law, with the leave first had and obtained from such High
Court.

(3) The provisions of Chapters LVIII, LIX, LX and LXI of
the Civil Procedure Code with reference to appeals, shall, so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act apply to appeals from Small Claims Court.

20

(4)  Any  application  for  leave  to  appeal  or  final  appeal
under this Act shall be heard and concluded within a period
of twelve months from the preference of such application or
appeal, unless the judge is prevented from acting accordingly
and reasons to be recorded by him.

25

PART VI

GENERAL PROVISIONS

30

30. The  provisions  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance
(Chapter 14)  shall  apply  to  proceedings  before  the  Small
Claims Court.

Evidence
Ordinance  to
apply  to
proceedings

12

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

31.

(1) If any matter should arise for which no provision
is made in this Act, the provisions of the Civil Procedure
Code  governing  a  like  matter  shall,  with  such  suitable
adaptations as the justice of the case may require, be adopted
and applied, if such provisions are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act.

Casus
omissus

(2) No proceedings in the Small Claims Court shall be
invalidated on account of any technicalities in procedure or
formal defect or irregularity in the pleadings, affidavits or
forms, and the Judge of Small Claims Court, in his discretion
and  in  the  interest  of  justice,  shall  ensure  that  such
technicalities will not impede the administration of justice,
unless a substantial prejudice has been caused or occasioned
a  failure  of  justice  by  such  defects  or  irregularities  to  the
parties.

32. A special roll shall be kept for cases instituted under
the provisions of this Act, where the District Judge functions
as the Judge of the Small Claims Court under this Act.

A  special  roll

Transitional
Provisions

33. All  proceedings  pending  in  the  District  Court  of
any  judicial  district,  but  before  the  commencement  of  the
pre-trial on the day preceding the date of operation of this
Act,  in  respect  of  any  matter  within  the  jurisdiction  of  a
Small Claims Court, shall on the date of operation of this
Act stand removed to the appropriate Small Claims Court
and such Small Claims Court shall have jurisdiction to take
cognizance of, hear and determine or to continue or complete
the  same  in  accordance  with  the  procedure  in  which  the
action  was  instituted  in  such  District  Court  and  all  orders
made, in respect of every such action before such District
Court shall have the same force and effect as if they have
been made by that Small Claims Court.

34.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

Interpretation

“Civil  Procedure  Code”  means  the  Civil

Procedure Code (Chapter 101);

5

10

15

20

25

30

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

13

“Judicature Act” means the Judicature Act, No. 2

of 1978;

“Minister”  means  the  Minister  to  whom  the
subject  of  Justice  is  assigned  under  Article
44 or 45 of the Constitution; and

“small claim” means a debt, damage or demand
referred  to  in  the  Seventh  Schedule  of  the
Judicature  Act,  which  does  not  exceed  the
sum specified or such other amount as may
be fixed by the Minister from time to time in
terms of subsection (2) of section 29A of the
Judicature Act.

5

10

35.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

15

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

14

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

SCHEDULE

Form  No.  1

PLAINT

[section  8(1)]

IN  THE  SMALL  CLAIMS  COURT  OF  ……….

Case  No. :
Date  of  Plaint:
Nature  of  claim:

Plaintiff’s  (s’)  Name  (s):-
Address  (es):-
Telephone  No. :-
E  mail  (if  any):-
-Vs-
Defendant’s  (s’)  name  (s):-
Address  (es):-
Telephone  No. :-
E  mail  (if  known):-

...............................................................................................................
.....................
The  plaint  of  the  above-named  plaintiff  (or  plaintiffs)  appearing

by  ......………  attorney-at-law  states  as  follows:-

Brief  statement  of  the  circumstances  constituting  each  cause  of

action,  including  where,  how  and  when  it  arose-

.................................................................................................

1.  .................................................................................................

2.  ...................................................................................................

Value  of  the  claim  (without  interest):  ……………………..

Interest  (if  claimed):  ……………………..

Value  of  the  whole  claim:  …………………………..

(In  case  the  whole  claim  exceeds  the  amount  specified  by  the
Minister  in  the  Order  published  in  the  Gazette  (which  is  presently
Rs.  ……………….  (without  interest),  the  plaintiff  may  indicate  in  the
plaint  that  he  restricts  the  whole  claim  to  ……………........…….
(without  interest)  in  order  to  bring  the  action  within  the  jurisdiction
of  the  Small  Claims  Court)  ……………………………….

...............................................................................................................
Demand

……………………………………..

Signature  of  plaintiff/plaintiffs
or
……..………………………………
Signature  of  the  (Plaintiff/  Plaintiffs’  Attorney-at-law)

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

15

Form  No.  2

[section  10(2)]

Form  of  summons  for  the  service  of  Summons  in  an  Action  on

Special  Procedure  for  Small  Claims  Courts

To  the  above-named  defendant  (or  defendants)

Whereas  the  above-named  plaintiff  has  instituted  an  action  against
you  in  this  Small  Claims  Court  under  the  provisions  of  the  Small
Claims  Courts’  Procedure  Act,  No.            of  2022  for  a  sum  of  Rs.  ..…
together  with  interest  at  the  rate  of  ……………..  (state  the  particulars
of  the  claim)  due  to  him,  you  are  hereby  required  to  file  in  the  Small
Claims Court your answer if any, together with an affidavit or affidavits
and  copies  of  other  documents  in  your  possession  and  power  in
support  of  your  defence  to  the  plaint  on  or  before  the  …………..  day
of  …………….20  ……at  9.00  a.m.  and  you  are  hereby  required  to
take  notice  that  in  default  of  your  filing  answer  and  affidavit  together
with  any  documents  on  or  before  the  said  date  the  action  will  be
proceeded  with  and  heard  ex  parte.

You  are  further  required,  if  you  do  not  appear  by  a  registered
attorney,  to  file  a  memorandum  stating  an  address  at  which  all  legal
notices  may  be  served.

Attached  herewith  are:

A  copy  of  the  plaint:-
A  copy  of  the  affidavit/  affidavits:-
Copies  of  the  following  documents:-
1.  ..................................................................................................
2.  ...................................................................................................

By  order  of  the  Small  Claims  Court
(Signed)  …………..  Registrar
The  ………..  day  of  …………….20…..

16

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

Form  No.  3

ANSWER

[section  12(2)]

IN  THE  SMALL  CLAIMS  COURT  OF  ……….

Case  No. :
Date  of  Plaint:
Nature  of  claim:

Plaintiff’s  (s’)  Name  (s):-
Address  (es):-
Telephone  No. :-
E  mail  (if  any):-
-Vs-
Defendant’s  (s’)  name  (s):-
Address  (es):-
Telephone  No. :-
E  mail  (if  known)

.......................................................................................................
The  answer  of  the  above-named  defendant  (or  defendants)  and

appearing  by  ......………  attorney-at-law  states  as  follows:  -

Brief  statement  admitting  or  denying  the  several  averments  of  the
plaint  and  setting  out  in  detail  plainly  and  concisely  the  matters  of  fact
and  law,  and  the  circumstances  of  the  case  upon  which  the  defendant
means  to  rely  for  his  defence:-

1.  ...................................................................................................

2.  ..................................................................................................

If  the  defendant  sets  up  a  claim  in  reconvention  which  is  within
the  jurisdiction  of  the  Small  Claims  Court,  a  plain  and  concise
statement  of  the  facts  constituting  the  ground  of  such  claim  which  the
defendant  makes  in  reconvention:  -

1.  ..................................................................................................

2.  ...................................................................................................

If  the  defendant  has  relinquished  a  portion  of  his  counterclaim  in
order  to  bring  the  claim  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Small  Claims
Court,  a  statement  indicating  the  amount  so  relinquished  and  restricted
the  counterclaim  to  the  amount  specified  in  the  Order  made  by  the
Minister  and  published  in  the  Gazette  (without  interest).

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

17

........................................................................................................

Value  of  the  counterclaim  (without  interest):-  ……………………..

Interest  (if  claimed):-  ……………………..

........................................................................................................

Demand:-

........................................................................................................

Signature  of  defendant
or
……..………………………………
Signature  of  the  (defendant  /  defendant’s
Attorney-at-law)

Attached  herewith  are:

Copy  of  affidavit/  affidavits

Copies  of  the  following  documents

1.

2.

18

Small Claims Courts’ Procedure

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

