PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

INTELLECTUAL  PROPERTY  (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 8 OF 2021

[Certified on 18th of January, 2021]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 22, 2021

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Intellectual Property (Amendment)
Act, No. 8 of 2021

1

[Certified on 18th of January, 2021]

L.D.—O. 11/2016

AN  ACT TO AMEND THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
ACT, NO.36 OF 2003

BE it  enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Intellectual  Property

Short  title

(Amendment) Act, No. 8 of  2021.

2. Section 5 of the Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of
2003 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is
hereby amended as follows:—

Amendment  of
section  5  of  Act,
No.  36  of  2003

(1) by the insertion immediately before the definition
of  the  expression  “audiovisual  work”,  of  the
following  definition:–

‘“accessible format” means a copy of a work in an
alternative  form  or  manner  which  gives  a
beneficiary  person  access  to  such  work,
including to permit such person to have access
as  feasibly  and  comfortably  as  a  person
without  any  disability  which  a  beneficiary
person has. The accessible format copy shall
be  used  exclusively  by  beneficiary  persons
and shall respect the intergrity of the original
work, taking into consideration of the changes
needed  to  make  the  work  accessible  in  the
alternative  format  and  of  the  accessibility
needs of the beneficiary person;”.

2

Intellectual Property (Amendment)
Act, No. 8 of 2021

(2) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the  expression  “author”  of  the  following
definition:–

“  “beneficiary person” means any person who–

(a) is  blind;

(b) has a visual impairment or a perceptual
or  reading  disability  which  cannot  be
improved  to  give  visual  function
substantially equivalent to a person who
has no such impairment or disability and
is  unable  to  read  printed  works  to
substantially the same degree as a person
without  any  such  impairment  or
disability;  or

(c) is  otherwise  unable,  through  physical
disability  to  hold  or  manipulate  a  book
or to focus or move eyes to the extent that
is acceptable for reading,

regardless of any other disability;”.

Insertion  of  new
section  12A  in
the  principal
enactment

3.  The  following  new  section  is  hereby  inserted
immediately after section 12 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 12A of that enactment:–

“Fair  use  of  a
work  by  any
authorized
entity  to
facilitate  a
beneficiary
person

12A. (1)

(a)  Notwithstanding  anything
contained  in  this  Part,  any  authorized  entity
may  adapt,  reproduce  and  issue  of  copies  of
any work in an accessible format for the benefit
of a beneficiary person in order to facilitate such
beneficiary  person  to  access  such  work
including  the  sharing  with  any  other
beneficiary  person  of  such  work  where  the

Intellectual Property (Amendment)
Act, No. 8 of 2021

3

reproduction is made exclusively for the own
use of the beneficiary person, his educational
purpose  or  research  and  where  the  original
format  of  such  work  prevents  the  enjoyment
thereof  by  such  person.  Such  adaptation,
reproduction and issue of copies of any work
by  the  authorized  entity  shall  not  be  an
infringement of copyright.

(b)  The  provisions  of  paragraph  (a)  shall
apply for any work only where such work is not
commercially  available  in  such  accessible
format under reasonable terms. In such event,
the  Minister  shall  deposit  a  notification  with
the Director-General of the World Intellectual
Property Organization declaring the limitations
or exceptions, as the case may be, to such work.

(2) An authorized entity shall–

(a) be such persons or organizations as
shall be prescribed by the Minister
in  consultation  with  the  Director-
General of Intellectual Property;

(b) make  available  to  any  beneficiary
person  copies  of  any  work  in
accessible format on non-profit basis
recovering  only  the  cost  of  the
production  of  such  work  in  an
accessible format;

(c) ensure  that  copies  of  any  work  in
accessible format are used only by a
beneficiary  person  and  take
reasonable steps to prevent its entry
into ordinary channels of business;

4

Intellectual Property (Amendment)
Act, No. 8 of 2021

(d) limit  the  supply  of  copies  of  any
work  in  accessible  format  only  to
adapt, reproduce and issue of copies
of  such  work  to  the  beneficiary
persons or any other persons acting
on behalf of the beneficiary person;

(e) discourage  the  reproduction,
distribution  and  making  available
of unauthorized copies of any work
in acccessible format; and

(f) maintain due care in, and records of
its handling of copies of any work
format  while
in  accessible 
respecting  the  privacy  of  a
beneficiary person.”.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case  of
inconsistency

4.

In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Intellectual Property (Amendment)
Act, No. 8 of 2021

5

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

