  THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC 
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
 SRI  LANKA

Part II of December 29, 2023

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 01.01.2024)

COMMISSION FOR TRUTH, UNITY AND RECONCILIATION 
IN SRI LANKA

A

BILL

An act to provide for the establishment of the Commission for Truth, Unity 
and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka; to set out the powers and functions of 
such Commission; to provide for monitoring of the implementation of the 
recommendations of the Commission or Truth, Unity and Reconciliation 
in Sri Lanka and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental 
thereto.

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Foreign Affairs

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU,  COLOMBO  5

Price : Rs. 60'00 

Postal Fee : Rs. 150'00

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

 
      
 
L.D.-O. 25/2023

An  act  to  provide  for  the  establishment  of  the 
commission  for  truth,  unity  and  reconciliation 
in sri lanka; to set out the powers and functions 
of  such  commission;  to  provide  for  monitoring  of 
the implementation of the recommendations of the 
commission for truth, unity and reconciliation in 
sri  lanka  and  to  provide  for  matters  connected 
therewith or incidental thereto.

WHEREAS  the  Constitution  of  Sri  Lanka  recognises  the 
inherent dignity and equal and inalienable human rights of 
all  Sri  Lankans,  including  the  right  to  equality  and  equal 
protection of the law of all persons, and the State’s obligation 
to respect, promote and protect these rights;

Preamble

AND WHEREAS a truth-seeking mechanism, anchored in 
the right of all Sri Lankans to know the truth as an integral 
part  of  their  right  to  an  effective  remedy,  will  contribute 
to  the  promotion  of  national  unity,  peace,  rule  of  law,  co-
existence, equality with tolerance and respect for diversity, 
and reconciliation among the people of Sri Lanka and non-
recurrence  of  disharmony  and  violence  for  the  well-being 
and security of all Sri Lankans including future generations;

AND WHEREAS respecting the fundamental rights and duties 
and  implementing  the  directive  principles  of  State  policy 
enshrined  in  the  Constitution  being  a  primary  objective  of 
all the organs of the Government of  Sri Lanka, and having 
solemnly  resolved  to    ratify  the  immutable  republican 
principles  of  representative  democracy  and  assuring  all 
peoples’ freedom, equality, justice, fundamental human rights 
as the intangible heritage that guarantees the dignity and well-
being of succeeding generations of the people of Sri Lanka, 
and recognising that a national policy of truth seeking and the 
advancement of national unity and reconciliation furthers the 
State’s assurance to all people of Sri Lanka freedom, equality, 
justice, fundamental human rights and the independence of 
the judiciary recognised under the Constitution;  

5

10

15

20

25

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka2

NOW THEREFORE, BE it enacted by the Parliament of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Commission for Truth, 

Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka Act, No.    of 2024. 

Short title 
and date of 
operation

5

(2) The provisions of this Act, other than this section shall 
come into operation on the date of expiration of two months 
from the date on which this Bill becomes an Act of Parliament.

(3) The provisions of this section shall come into operation 
on the date on which this Bill becomes an Act of Parliament.

10

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE COMMISSION FOR 
TRUTH, UNITY AND RECONCILIATION IN 
SRI LANKA

15

2. (1) There shall be established a Commission which shall 
be called and known as the Commission for Truth, Unity and 
Reconciliation  in  Sri  Lanka  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the 
“Commission”).

(2)  The  Commission  shall  be  a  body  corporate  with  a 
common seal, and may sue and be sued in its corporate name.

Establishment 
of the 
Commission 
for Truth, 
Unity and 
Reconciliation 
in Sri Lanka

20

(3) The  seal  of  the  Commission  shall  be  in  the  custody 
of the  Chairperson of the Commission and may be altered 
in such manner as may be determined by the Commission.

(4)  The  common  seal  of  the  Commission  shall  be 
authenticated  by  the  signature  of  the  Chairperson  of  the 
Commission. 

25

(5) The Commission shall be located in Colombo and may 

conduct its sittings in any place in Sri Lanka. 

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka3

(6) The Commission may set up such regional offices as 

necessary. 

3. (1) The Commission shall consist of not less than seven 
members and not more than twenty-one members, all of whom 
shall be citizens of Sri Lanka. 

5

The 
composition 
of the 
Commission

(2)  The  composition  of  the  Commission  shall  reflect 
the  pluralistic  nature  of  Sri  Lanka,  including  gender,  and 
all  members  shall  be  persons  of  integrity  and  credibility 
appointed  on  the  basis  of  their  knowledge  and  practical 
experience in disciplines relating to law, human rights and 
humanitarian  law,  history,  social  sciences,  psychology, 
investigations,  post  conflict  studies  and  reconciliation,  and 
may possess other qualifications relevant to the carrying out 
of functions of the Commission. 

(3) Any person who intends to be appointed as a member 
of  the  Commission  or  who  wishes  to  nominate  any  other 
suitable person, whom he deems it expedient to be appointed 
as a member of the Commission, may make an application to 
the Constitutional Council expressing his intention to be so 
appointed or nominating such other person, in such manner 
as may be specified in the rules made under this Act.

(4) The members of the Commission shall be appointed 
by the President on the recommendation of the Constitutional 
Council. 

(5)  In  making  its  recommendations  under  subsection 
(4), the Constitutional Council shall have due regard to the 
provisions of subsection (2) and shall take in to account the 
applications made under subsection (3).

(6)  The  Constitutional  Council  shall  recommend  three 
names from among the members of the Commission to the 
President out of whom the President shall appoint one person 
as Chairperson of the Commission.

10

15

20

25

30

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka4

4.(1) Unless such member vacates the office earlier under 
subsection (2), every member of the Commission shall hold 
office for a period from the date of appointment, up to the end 
of the term of the Commission.

Term of office 
and removal 
of members 

5

(2) The office of a member shall become vacant -

(a) upon the death of such member;

(b)  upon  such  member  resigning  from  such  office  

   by writing addressed   to  the President;

(c) upon such member being removed from office on    

10

  any ground specified in subsection (2); or

(d) on the expiration of the term of the Commission 
and the consequent expiration of a member’s term 
of office. 

15

(3)  A  member  of  the  Commission  may  be  removed 
from  office,  by  the  President  with  the  concurrence  of  the 
Constitutional Council, if such person –

  (a) is or becomes a member of Parliament, or a member 
of any Provincial Council or any Local Authority;

  (b) is adjudged an insolvent by a court of competent 

20

jurisdiction;

  (c) is found by the President, acting on the advice of 

the Prime Minister   to have a conflict of interest 

with his duties as a member of the  Commission: 

25

advise  the  President  in  consultation  with  the 

Provided  that,  the  Prime  Minister  shall 

Speaker and the Leader of the Opposition;

  (d) is certified on the basis of professional opinion to 
be unfit to continue in office by reason of infirmity 
of mind or body;

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
5

  (e) is declared to be of unsound mind by a court of 

competent jurisdiction;

  (f) is convicted for a criminal offence by a court of 

law; 

5

  (g) absents himself from three consecutive meetings 
without obtaining leave of the Commission; or

  (h)  is  unable  to  perform  the  duties  of  office  for  a 
continuous period exceeding three months. 

(4)  The  Chairperson  may  resign  from  the  office  of 

10

Chairperson by letter addressed to the President.

(5) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1), the term of 
office of the Chairperson shall be the period of membership 
of the Commission.

(6)  If  the  Chairperson  of  the  Commission  becomes 
temporarily unable to perform the duties of office by reason 
of illness or other infirmity, or absence from Sri Lanka, or 
any other such reason, the President may appoint any other 
member  of  the  Commission  to  act  in  his  place  until  the 
Chairperson is able to resume office:

Provided however, the members of the Commission shall 
select  a  member  from  amongst  themselves  to  act  in  such 
position  until  the  President  appoints  any  other  member  to 
act in his place.

(7) If a Member of the Commission becomes temporarily 
unable to perform the duties of office by reason of illness or 
other infirmity, or absence from Sri Lanka, or any other such 
reason, the President may appoint any other person to act in 
his place until such member is able to resume office.

15

20

25

30

(8)  The  provisions  of  section  3  shall  mutatis  mutandis 
apply in respect of acting appointments made in terms of sub 
sections (6) and (7) of this section. 

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka6

 (9) No act or proceeding of the Commission shall be deemed 
to  be  invalid  by  reason  only  of  the  existence  of  any 
vacancy among its members, or defect in the appointment 
of any member thereof.

5

5. The Chairperson and at least three other members of the 
Commission shall work full-time. The Constitutional Council 
shall designate, which of the members are appointed on full 
time basis.  

Full-time 
members

10

6. The Commission shall appoint an “information officer” 
and  a  “designated  officer”  for  purpose  of  the  Right  to 
Information Act, No. 12 of 2016.      

Information 
officer and 
designated 
officer

15

20

7. (1) The Commission shall conduct sittings as provided 
in subsection (5) of section 2 to receive, obtain and collect 
information and material in respect of the matters referred to 
in section 12.

Sittings of the 
commission

(2)  The  Commission  shall  undertake  investigations  and 
inquiries by panels consisting of not less than three members 
of  the  Commission. The  members  shall  be  assigned  to  the 
panels by the Chairperson of the Commission. One member 
of such panel shall be designated as the Chairperson of the 
panel by the Chairperson of the Commission.   

(3) All  sittings  of  the  Commission  shall,  subject  to  the 
provisions of subsection (4), be held in public, and all persons 
shall be entitled freely to attend such sittings. 

25

(4) The  Commission  may,  in  its  discretion,  whenever  it 

considers it desirable, including - 

(a)  in proceedings relating to sexual matters;

(b)  in the interests of national security or public safety;

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka   
 
7

(c)  in the interest of personal security of any person; 

(d)  in  the  interest  of  guaranteeing  confidentiality  or 
creating an enabling environment for truth telling;

(e)  in the interests of maintaining order and security 

5

within the precincts of the Commission; or 

(f)  where there is a risk of prejudice being caused to 
any ongoing or prospective legal proceedings, 

10

15

20

exclude therefrom such persons as are not directly interested or 
involved in proceedings therein, or such other persons as the 
Commission may deem it necessary to exclude, particularly 
in the interest of the personal security of any person. 

(5) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other 
written law, where the Commission conducts closed sittings, 
as referred to in subsection (4) or receives information, the 
publication of which is likely to threaten the security of any 
person or compromise national security or public safety, such 
information or any part thereof shall not be made public in 
any manner, and no person shall, in any manner disclose such 
information to any other party, that was not privy to the said 
closed sittings:

Provided however, the Commission may publish a record 
of proceedings of such sittings or information after redacting 
such portions thereof as necessary to protect the security or 
interests of any person or national security or public safety.    

25

30

(6)  The  Commission  shall  conduct  its  proceedings  in 
Sinhala  and  Tamil,  or  English  as  deemed  necessary.  The 
Commission  shall  provide  simultaneous  interpretations 
or  translations  into  Sinhala,  Tamil  or  English  as  it  deems 
necessary. Where necessary, the Commission may additionally 
use sign language to assist those with hearing impairment, 
who engage in the proceedings of the Commission.  

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka 
                      
    
 
8

(7) All proceedings of the Commission shall be recorded 
verbatim in writing, as well as by way of audio, or audio-
visual recordings.

5

8. (1) The members of the Commission shall meet, at least 
once every fortnight to consider and deliberate on the business 
and affairs of the Commission:

Meetings 
of the 
Commission 

Provided that, any member unable to attend a meeting in 
person may participate at such meetings by means of telephone 
or video link or by means of other such technological facilities.   

(2) The Chairperson of the Commission shall preside at 
all  meetings of the Commission. In the event of the absence 
of  the  Chairperson  from  any  meeting,  the  members  of  the 
Commission present at such meeting shall appoint one from 
amongst themselves to preside at such meeting.

(3) The quorum for meetings or sittings of the Commission 
shall be the majority of the total number of members appointed 
for the time being of the Commission, which shall, in any 
event be not less than five members. 

(4) A decision on any matter before the Commission shall 
be  by  a  majority  of  votes  of  the  members  present.  In  the 
case of an equality of votes, the Chairperson or the member 
presiding at any meeting shall have a casting vote in addition 
to an individual vote.

10

15

20

25

(5) The Commission shall cause minutes of all proceedings 
of its meetings to be entered in records maintained for that 
purpose. 

(6) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Commission 
may  regulate  the  procedure  in  regard  to  the  conduct  of 
meetings and sittings of the Commission, the transaction of 
business and affairs of the Commission, and subject to the 
law, the disciplinary procedure relating to its officers and staff.

30

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka9

9. The term of the Commission shall be five years from the 

date of coming into operation of this Act:

Term of the 
Commission

Provided  however,  the  term  of  the  Commission  may 
be  extended  by  the  President,  if  the  President  deems  such 
extension to be necessary, for another preiod of one year at 
a time, so however, the aggregate period of such extension 
shall not exceed two years.

10.  From  the  date  of  establishment  and  throughout  its 
existence   the Commission shall take all appropriate measures 
to inform the public of its existence and its objectives. 

Duty to 
inform the 
public 

11. In the performance of its functions under this Act, the 
Commission shall be considered an autonomous institution 
and  shall  not  be  subject  to  the  control  or  direction  of  any 
person or authority.

Commission 
not subject 
to control or 
direction 

Objectives and 
mandate of the 
Commission

PART II

OBJECTIVES AND MANDATE OF THE COMMISSION 

12. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other written 
law,  the  Commission  shall  investigate,  inquire,  and  make 
recommendations  in  respect  of  complaints  or  allegations 
or reports relating to damage or harm caused to persons or 
property,  loss  of  life  or  alleged  violation  of  human  rights 
anywhere in Sri Lanka, which were caused in the course of, or 
reasonably connected to, or consequent to the conflict which 
took place in the Northern and Eastern Provinces during the 
period 1983 to 2009, or its aftermath.

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1), the mandate 

of the Commission includes the following:-

(a) the promotion of truth telling, national unity, peace, 
rule of law, co-existence, equality with tolerance 
and respect for diversity, and reconciliation among 

5

10

15

20

25

30

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka10

5

10

15

20

25

30

the people of Sri Lanka, by establishing a truthful, 
accurate, impartial, complete record of the alleged 
damage or harm caused to persons or property loss 
of life or alleged violation of human rights referred 
to in subsection (1); 

(b)  investigation  and  making  recommendations  in 
respect of the causes of the alleged damage or harm 
caused to persons or property, loss of life or alleged 
violation of human rights referred to in subsection 
(1)  to  the  fullest  degree  possible,  in  the  interest 
of prevention of the future occurrence of thereof;  

 (c) helping restore the dignity of aggrieved persons 
by providing an opportunity for them to give an 
account of the alleged damage or harm caused to 
persons or property, loss of life or alleged violation 
of human rights referred to in subsection (1), giving 
special  attention  to  the  experiences  of  women, 
children and persons with disability; 

(d) providing the people of Sri Lanka with a platform 
and opportunity for truth telling and relating their 
narratives,  including  positive  experiences  and 
providing them the necessary protection;

(e)  recommending,  ways  and  means  of  effective 
remedies  for  aggrieved  persons  and  diverse 
reparation measures in respect of them, including 
by  the  referral  of  matters  to  the  Office  for 
Reparations  established  under  the  Office  for 
Reparations Act, No. 34 of 2018; 

(f)  making  recommendations  with  regard  to 
institutional, administrative and legislative policy 
and  resource  allocation  measures  that  should  be 
taken  or  introduced  to  prevent,  and  ensure  non-
recurrence of the alleged damage or harm caused to 
persons or property, loss of life or alleged violation 

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka11

of human rights referred to in subsection (1), and 
to promote reconciliation; 

(g)  compiling  a  report  providing  as  comprehensive 
an  account  of  the  activities,  investigations  and 
recommendations of the Commission, including-  

 (i)   recording of positive experiences of aggrieved 
persons and the potential to use them towards 
non-recurrence  of  alleged  damage  or  harm 
caused  to  persons  or  property  or  alleged 
violation  of  human  rights  referred  to  in 
subsection (1);

 (ii)  general  recommendations  on  measures 
to  prevent  the  future  occurrence  of  the 
alleged  damage  or  harm  caused  to  persons 
or  property,  loss  of  life  or  alleged  violation 
of human rights referred to in subsection (1), 
including  recommendations  on  promotion  of 
reconciliation,  co-existence  among  diverse 
communities, good governance, justice, respect 
for the rule of law and combating impunity; and

(iii)  t h e   Commission’s  investigations  a n d 
recommendations in respect of allegations of 
denial of economic, social, cultural, including 
language  rights  or  making  recommendations 
on how to address such issues;

  (h)  investigating  and  making  recommendations  in 
respect of the allegations of damage or harm caused 
to  persons  or  property  or  loss  of  life  or  alleged 
violation of human rights referred to in subsection 
(1), including-

(i)   acts  or  omissions  resulting  in  the 
arbitrary  deprivation  of  human  life  or 
any attempt thereto, extrajudicial killings, 
assassinations and mass murders; 

5

10

15

20

25

30

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka12

5

10

15

20

25

(ii)   acts  of  torture,  cruel,  inhumane  and 

degrading treatment;

(iii)  sexual  violence,  abuse  and  exploitation 
of  persons,  with  due  regard  to  particular 
experiences of women, children, persons 
with disability, detainees and prisoners;  

(iv)  abduction,  hostage  taking,  enforced 

disappearances;

(v)  arbitrary or unlawful arrests or detentions;

(vi)  fact finding in respect of alleged corruption 
and  intentional  misuse  of  equipment 
and  financial  resources  in  relation  to  the 
conflict which took place in the Northern 
and  Eastern  provinces  that  contributed 
to the loss of life or grave risk of loss of 
life of persons, including members of the 
armed forces, the Police and civil defence 
personnel of Sri Lanka;

(vii) fact  finding  in  respect  of  the  incidence 
of  recruitment  of  children  into  armed 
groups connected with the conflict which 
took  place  in  the  Northern  and  Eastern 
provinces or its aftermath;

(viii) fact  finding  in  respect  of  allegations  of 
forcible transfer or displacement of persons 
or populations within Sri Lanka; 

(ix)  fact  finding  in  respect  of  allegations  of 
arbitrary  or  unlawful  deprivation  of 
property, whether temporary or permanent;

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka5

10

15

20

25

13

(x) 

inquiry  into  the  existence,  if  any,  of 
practices  that  have  led  to  discriminatory 
treatment or violations of individual rights 
based on religion, ethnicity, gender, place 
of  origin,  political  opinion,  language  or 
caste;

(xi)  inquiry  into  whether  any  of  the  alleged 
violations  and  abuses  referred  to  in 
subsection (1) were committed as part of 
systemic crimes; and

(xii) making  findings  in  regard  to  those 
responsible  for  the  commission  of  the 
alleged violations and abuses referred to 
in  subsection  (1),  including  those  who 
advised, planned, directed, commanded or 
ordered such atrocities;

(i)  making  recommendations  regarding  schemes  to 
empower affected communities by providing peace 
building and conflict transformation and livelihood 
training opportunities by those qualified to do so;

(i)   the  alleged  damage  or  harm  caused  to 
persons  or  property  or  loss  of  life  or 
alleged violation of human rights referred 
to in subsection (1);

(ii)  any conflict amongst the different ethnic 

or religious groups in Sri Lanka; 

(j)  making  recommendations  regarding  the  non-
recurrence of, and addressing the root causes for-

(k)  creating  awareness  among  the  public  of  the 

objective  of  this Act  and  the  recourse  available; 
and 

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka 
14

 (l)  compiling  comprehensive  reports  of  the 
activities,  investigations,  implementations  and 
recommendations of the Commission.  

PART III

5

POWERS,  DUTIES  AND  FUNCTIONS  OF  THE 
COMMISSION

13. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other 
written law, the Commission may exercise any or all of the 
following powers for the purpose of discharging its functions:-

Powers of the 
Commission

10

15

20

25

(a)  to prepare its own internal regulations, procedures 
and guidelines setting out in particular its structure 
and administrative arrangements;

(b)  to  make  guidelines  or  by-laws,  including 
formulating  gender-sensitive  policies,  to  be 
followed by all staff of the Commission concerning 
the performance of duties and functions;

 (c) to  appoint  staff,  the  composition  of  which  shall 
reflect the pluralistic nature of Sri Lanka, including 
gender, and to provide training facilities to them 
as relevant to the work of the Commission. The 
Commission  may  request  secondment  of  public 
officers to the Commission;

 (d) to dismiss staff for good cause;

  (e)  to  establish  committees,  units  or  divisions  in 
addition to those units and divisions specifically 
mentioned  in  this Act,  to  perform  duties  and 
functions of the Commission;

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka15

 (f)  to  delegate  powers  to  such  committees,  units, 
divisions  or  individuals  appointed  by  the 
Commission as appropriate and necessary;

 (g) to  enter  into  agreements  with  any  person  or 
entity  necessary  to  achieve  the  objectives  of 
the  Commission  including  Office  on  Missing 
Persons  established  under  Office  on  Missing 
Persons  (Establishment,  Administration  and 
Discharge  of  Functions) Act,  No.  14  of  2016, 
Office  for  Reparations  established  under  Office 
for  Reparations Act,  No.  34  of  2018  and  Office 
for National Unity and Reconciliation established 
under Office for National Unity and Reconciliation 
Act, No………  of 2024;

 (h) to  raise  funds  in  order  to  achieve  the  objectives 
of the Commission, including but not limited to 
obtaining any grants, gifts or endowments:  

Provided  that,  all  funds  received  from 
outside Sri Lanka shall be channelled through the 
External Resources Department.

 (i)  to open and maintain bank accounts;

 (j) to control, supervise and administer the assets of 

the Commission;

 (k) to  seek  technical  assistance  from  any  person 
or  institution  or  organisation  in  the  interest  of 
advancement of the commission’s work;

 (l)  to  draw  on  the  work  of  other  bodies,  including 

previous Commissions of inquiry;

(m) to  prioritize  proceedings  with  the  objective  of 
promoting  national  reconciliation,  peace,  co-

5

10

15

20

25

30

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka       
  
 
16

5

10

15

20

25

30

existence  and  non-recurrence  within  the  context 
of this Act;

 (n) subject to subsection (3) of section 7, to conduct 
public sittings and when the Commission considers 
it  possible  publicly  broadcast  or  telecast  its 
proceedings either simultaneously or otherwise;

 (o) subject to subsection (4) of section 7 to conduct 
closed  sittings  where  the  Commission  deems  it 
necessary; 

 (p) to create, maintain and take steps to ensure deposit 
and continuity of a complete database and archive 
of  all  materials  collected  or  received  by  the 
Commission;

 (q) to  initiate,  on  its  own  motion  or  on  a  complaint 
made  to  it  by  an  aggrieved  person  or  group  of 
persons or a person acting on behalf of an aggrieved 
person or a group of persons, and investigations 
in  respect  of  alleged  damage  or  harm  caused  to 
persons or property, or violations of human rights, 
referred to in subsection (1) of section 12; 

 (r)  to receive from any aggrieved persons complaints 
or reports relating to the alleged damage or harm 
caused  to  persons  or  property  referred  to  in 
subsection (1) of section 12;   

 (s) to  gather  any  information  that  the  Commission 
considers  relevant  to  fulfilling  its  mandate, 
including requisition of reports, records, documents 
or  information  from  governmental  authorities 
or  any  source  and  to  compel  the  production  of 
such  material  as  and  when  necessary,  including 
through access to archival material and classified 
documentation;

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka17

 (t) to summon any person residing in Sri Lanka, to 
attend any meeting or hearing of the Commission 
to provide information or produce any document 
or other thing in such person’s possession; 

 (u) to procure and receive all such material, written 
or  oral,  and  to  interview  all  such  persons  as  the 
Commission  deems  necessary,  or  require  such 
persons to produce any document or other thing 
in their possession;

 (v) to  require  evidence  (whether  written  or  oral)  of 
any witness, to be given on oath or affirmation, and 
to administer and cause to be administered by an 
officer authorized in that behalf by the Commission 
on oath or affirmation to every such witness;

(w) to request assistance necessary for the achieving 
of  its  mandate,  from  any  State,  Governmental, 
provincial  or  local  authority  or  agency,  or  any 
officer  thereof.  Notwithstanding  anything  to 
the  contrary  in  any  other  written  law,  any  such 
authority,  agency  or  officer  to  which  a  request 
for  assistance  is  made  by  the  Commission  shall 
forthwith render such assistance. Such assistance 
shall  include  but  not  be  limited  to  providing 
information, documents or any other thing, in the 
possession or custody of such authority, agency or 
officer, or access to such places as the Commission 
may determine necessary to visit;  

 (x) to  receive  information  in  confidence  from  any 
person, where essential for truth seeking and only 
under  exceptional  circumstances,  where  in  the 
opinion of the Commission, the disclosure of such 
information would pose a risk or threat to life or 
security of any person: 

Provided  that,  except  in  the  performance 
of  official  responsibilities  under  this Act,  every 

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka               
  
 
18

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

member,  officer,  servant  or  consultant  of  the 
Commission shall preserve and aid in preserving 
confidentiality of such information: 

Provided further, notwithstanding anything 
to the contrary in any other law, the Commission 
shall not be compelled to disclose the identity of 
any person supplying information in confidence to 
the Commission, or any part of such information 
that would reveal the identity of such person, where 
in the opinion of the Commission, the disclosure 
of such information would pose a risk or threat to 
life or security of any person; 

(y)  to  admit,  notwithstanding  any  of  the  provisions 
of  the  Evidence  Ordinance  (Chapter  14),  any 
information, whether written or oral, which might 
be inadmissible in civil or criminal proceedings in 
order to facilitate truth seeking;

(z)  to  make  an  application  to  a  Magistrate  having 
jurisdiction, for the issuance of a search warrant, 
to  enable  the  Police,  to  search  any  premises 
suspected  to  contain  material  relevant  to  an 
investigation being conducted by the Commission. 
The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure 
Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall, mutatis mutandis apply 
in such instances;

(za)  to  search  and  inspect  identified  premises  under 
the  authority  of  a  search  warrant  issued  by  a 
Magistrate, and examine, make copies of, extract 
from, seize and retain, any object that is deemed 
necessary  for  any  investigation being  conducted 
by  the  Commission  and  to  ensure  that  any  such 
site that may have been allegedly used for torture 
or  illegal  places  of  detention  are  located  and 
preserved. The provisions of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure Act,  No.  15  of  1979  shall,  mutatis 
mutandis apply in such instances;

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka 
  
 
19

(zb) to seek the assistance of the Sri Lanka Police as 
necessary  to  advance  the  investigations  of  the 
Commission; 

(zc)  to  make  an  application  to  a  Magistrate,  having 
jurisdiction, to excavate sites of suspected graves 
or  mass  graves  and  to  act  as  observers  at  such 
excavations or exhumations. The provisions of the 
Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 
shall, mutatis mutandis apply in such instances;

(zd) to refer matters to the relevant law enforcement 
or  prosecuting  authorities  of  Sri  Lanka  for 
further investigation and necessary action, where 
it  appears  to  the  Commission  that  an  offence 
or  offences  punishable  under  the  Penal  Code 
(Chapter 19) or any other law of Sri Lanka has 
been  committed,  subject  to  the  provisions  of 
paragraph (y);  

(ze)  to obtain assistance from the Government of Sri 
Lanka  to  secure  cooperation  from  authorities 
of  foreign  states  in  terms  of  the  Mutual  Legal 
Assistance  in  Criminal  Matters Act,  No.  25  of 
2002 to access information available overseas;

(zf)  to  seek  assistance  from  community  leaders  and 
organisations  to  facilitate  its  public  sessions 
and  in  resolving  local  conflicts  in  support 
of  reconciliation  and  non-recurrence  as  the 
Commission may deem necessary; and

(zg) notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any 
other written law, to do all such things as necessary 
to  achieving  the  objectives  and  mandate  of  the 
Commission.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka20

14. All  persons  including  members  of  the  Government, 
public  officials  and  authorities  shall  co-operate  with  the 
Commission and its staff in the fulfillment of the Commission’s 
objectives and mandate under this Act.

All persons 
shall co-
operate 
with the 
Commission

PART IV

REPORTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE 
COMMISSION

15.  (1)  The  Commission  shall  submit  its’  final  report 
to  the  President  at  the  expiration  of  its  term  containing 
a  comprehensive  account  of  its  activities,  including  its 
recommendations. 

Reports of the 
Commission 

(2) The  Commission  shall  submit  interim  reports 
bi-annually with recommendations prior to the submission of 
its final report, following a sustained period of investigations, 
at least annually, detailing the work of the Commission. Such 
Interim Reports shall be submitted to the President. 

(3) Immediately upon submitting the final report and such 
interim reports as provided for under subsections (1) and (2) 
to the President, the Commission shall publish all such reports, 
using  print  and  electronic  media,  including  social  media, 
and shall make copies of the reports or summaries thereof, 
widely available to the public in Sinhala, Tamil and English 
languages. The Commission shall ensure wide publicity for 
its recommendations, by involving inter alia, the media. 

(4) Within twenty-one days from the date of receipt of an 
interim report or the final report of the Commission in terms of 
subsections (1) and (2), the President shall have such reports 
tabled in Parliament. 

(5) The final report of the Commission shall include -

5

10

15

20

25

30

 (a)   root causes of the alleged   damage or harm caused 

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka21

to persons or property or loss of life, described in 
section 12;

 (b)  observations of the Commission on alleged damage 
or harm or loss of life caused to persons or property 
described in section 12;

  (c)  recommendations  addressing  issues  relating  to 

women and children;

  (d)  observations  and  recommendations  on  child 
soldiers, and their recovery and reintegration;

 (e)   recommendations relating to forced displacement 
of persons or groups of persons within Sri Lanka;

 (f)  recommendations  for,  inter  alia,  legal,  political, 
socio-economic  reforms,  including  in  particular                
education,  health,  cultural,  administrative  and 
institutional  reforms  deemed  necessary  for  non-
recurrence; and

 (g)  recommendations  on  reparations,  including 
psycho-social support, while identifying priorities.

5

10

15

20

16. (1) The Commission’s recommendations shall not be 
deemed to be a determination of civil or criminal liability of 
any person.

Recomm-
endations 
of the 
Commission

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Code 
of  Criminal  Procedure Act,  No.  15  of  1979  or  any  other 
law, it shall be lawful for the Attorney-General to institute 
criminal proceedings in a designated court of law in respect 
of any offence based on material collected in the course of an 
investigation or inquiry or both, as the case may be, by the 
Commission established under this Act.

25

(3) Parliament may take cognizance of the recommendations 
of the Commission or a panel of the Commission contained 

30

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka22

it is interim reports or final report submitted to the President 
and tabled in Parliament, as the case may be, and pass such 
resolution it may consider necessary to promote national unity 
and reconciliation.

PART V

PROTECTION  OF  THE  RIGHTS  OF AGGRIEVED 
PERSONS AND WITNESSES

17. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other 
written  law,  the  Commission  shall  develop  and  enforce  a 
system for the protection of aggrieved persons and witnesses.  

18.  (1)  The  Commission  shall  recommend  the  granting 
of material or symbolic reparations to individual aggrieved 
persons and witnesses who engage with the Commission, and 
who are entitled in the opinion of the Commission to such 
reparations, including but not limited to restitution, financial 
compensation, welfare services and rehabilitation. 

(2) The Commission shall also recommend that collective 
reparations be granted in order to facilitate reconciliation and 
non-recurrence. 

(3)  The  Commission  may  direct  its  recommendations 
to  the  appropriate  authorities,  including  to  the  Office  for 
Reparations established under the Office for Reparations Act, 
No.  34 of 2018.

Protection 
for aggrieved 
persons and 
witnesses

Reparations

19.  The  Commission  shall  prioritize  and  facilitate  the 
provision of medical and psycho-social support to aggrieved 
persons  and  witnesses  during  the  proceedings  of  the 
Commission, when in the opinion of the Commission, such 
services are required, including by–

Medical and 
psycho-social 
support 

  (a)  providing  psycho-social  training  for  all  staff 
members  of  the  Commission  to  enable  efficient 
handling of aggrieved persons and witnesses;

5

10

15

20

25

30

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka23

 (b)  provision of onsite psycho-social counsellors at all 
public or closed sittings with aggrieved persons and 
witnesses; and

 (c)  conducting psycho-social briefings and debriefings 
or evaluations for aggrieved persons and witnesses 
as necessary prior to public or closed sittings to 
ensure that aggrieved persons are psychologically 
prepared,  addressing  in  particular  the  needs  of 
children. 

20.  (1)  The  Commission  shall  take  measures  to  protect 
the identity or ensure the safety and protection of aggrieved 
persons and witnesses, who in the opinion of the Commission 
require such protective measures.

Protective 
measures  

(2)  The  Commission  shall  in  particular  ensure  that 
statements of children are obtained in closed proceedings and 
information leading to the identity of children are removed 
or redacted from public transcripts and their confidentiality 
duly protected.

(3) The Commission shall, upon a request by a child or 
by his or her guardian, afford such child the option of either 
submitting  a  video  recording  of  his  or  her  statement  to 
the  Commission,  or  appearing  before  the  Commission  via 
audio-visual link, in lieu of appearing in person before the 
Commission.

21. The Commission shall endeavor as far as practicable 
to  conduct  its  sittings  in  such  locations  and  in  such  form 
to  enable  easy  access  to  aggrieved  persons  and  witnesses, 
especially  addressing  the  needs  of  women,  children  and 
persons with disability. 

Access for 
aggrieved 
persons and 
witnesses 

5

10

15

20

25

30

22. The Commission may provide funding for the travel of 
witnesses or persons summoned by the Commission, at the 
discretion of the Commission.

Funding 
for travel of 
witnesses  

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka5

10

20

25

24

23.  The  Commission  shall  inform  aggrieved  persons, 
witnesses and other informants, who provide information to the 
Commission, of the potential use of any information provided 
by them and their right to directly refer matters to relevant 
authorities, including their right to report serious crimes to 
the  relevant  law  enforcement  or  prosecuting  authorities  of 
Sri Lanka and of the availability of any mechanisms through 
which they may make claims for administrative relief. 

Duty to 
inform people 
of their rights 
and potential 
use of their 
information 

24. In exercising its powers under this Act, the Commission 
shall ensure that the rights of aggrieved persons, witnesses 
and any other persons shall be enforced on a basis of equality 
without regard to status and without discrimination on any 
grounds whatsoever.

PART VI

15

THE  SECRETARIAT  AND THE  DIRECTOR  GENERAL

25. The Commission shall have a Secretariat which shall 
be  charged  with  the  responsibility  for  the  administration 
of  the  affairs  of  the  Commission.  The  Secretariat  shall 
include, the Victim and Witness Protection Division and the 
Data  Management  Division  and  such  other  division  as  the 
Commission may consider necessary. 

Duty to ensure 
the rights of 
aggrieved 
persons, 
and any 
other person 
without 
discrimination

Secretariat 

26.  (1)  The  President  shall,  in  consultation  with  the 
Commission,  appoint  a  person  with  suitable  academic 
and  professional  qualifications  and  work  experience  as 
the Director General of the Commission, who shall be the 
Chief Executive Officer of the Secretariat and who shall be 
subject to the authority of the Commission and report to the 
Commission.

Director 
General 

(2) The President may, in consultation with the Commission, 

30

remove the Director General for good cause.  

(3)  The  Director  General  shall  be  responsible  for  the 
management and administration of the business and affairs 

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka25

of the Commission, including but not limited to the following 
functions–

(a)   day to day management and administration of the 

business and affairs of the Commission;

5

 (b)  maintaining custody and preservation of all records, 
documents and materials of the Commission; 

 (c)   management of the assets of the Commission; and

 (d)  performance  of  such  other  duties  as  may  be 

assigned by the Commission from time to time. 

10

27. (1) All divisions of the Secretariat, unless otherwise 
provided for by the Commission, shall be under the purview 
of the Director General of the Commission.   

All Divisions  
to be under 
the purview of 
the Director 
General 

(2)  All officers and staff of such divisions shall be appointed 
by the Commission, and shall be full-time employees of the 
Commission,  unless  otherwise  decided  by  the  Director 
General and approved by the Commission. 

15

(3) All  such  officers  and  staff  shall  be  removed  by  the 

Commission only for good cause.

(4) The officers and staff of all such divisions shall reflect 

20

the pluralistic nature of Sri Lanka, including gender. 

28.  (1)  There  shall  be  a  Victim  and  Witness  Protection 
Division  that  shall  assist  the  Commission  in  developing 
and  enforcing  a  system  for  aggrieved  persons  and  witness 
protection,  and  in  particular  in  the  discharge  of  the 
Commission’s duties and responsibilities under sections 17, 
18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 of this Act.  

Victim and 
Witness 
Protection 
Division 

(2)  The  Victim  and  Witness  Protection  Division  shall 
facilitate  the  provision  of  personal  security,  psycho  social 
support  and  the  protection  of  the  rights  of  all  aggrieved 
persons  and,  witnesses  who  engage  with  the  Commission, 

25

30

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka 
26

and also endeavour to provide or facilitate the provision of 
administrative and welfare services requested by such persons. 

(3) The Victim and Witness Protection Division shall be 
fully supported by the National Authority for the Protection 
of  Victims  of  Crime  and  Witnesses  established  under  the 
Assistance  to  and  Protection  of  Victims  of  Crime  and 
Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023.  The Commission shall be 
deemed to be a “Commission” for purposes of the Assistance 
to and Protection of Victims of Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 
10 of 2023. 

5

10

(4)  The  Victim  and  Witness  Protection  Division  may 
co-ordinate with law enforcement agencies where it deems 
necessary.

15

29.  (1)  There  shall  be  a  Data  Management  Division, 
which shall be responsible for the creation, maintenance and 
management of the Database of the Commission. 

Data 
Management 
Division  

20

25

30

(2) The Data Management division shall take all necessary 
steps, including technical safeguards to ensure the security 
of all its databases and data, and take all necessary measures 
to ensure archiving of materials, preservation of records and 
maintenance of a database and institutional memory. The Data 
Management division shall at all times ensure the protection 
of confidentiality of information gathered on such basis.

30.  In  addition  to  the  above-named  divisions,  the 
Commission may appoint or establish specific mechanisms 
and  procedures  to  address  the  experiences  and  specific 
requirements of women, children, persons with disabilities, 
and disadvantaged groups, as well as advisors with relevant 
expertise to advise the Commission on specific disciplines, 
subjects or issues as it deems fit.

Specific 
mechanisms 
and
advisors 

31. The Commission may issue directions and instructions 
to the divisions and units of the Commission directly or seek 
their advice directly as it deems fit.    

The 
Commission 
may issue 
directions

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka  
27

32. (1) There shall be established an Advisory Panel for 
the purpose of advising the Commission, the panels of the 
Commission  and  the  Secretariat  on  matters  referred  to  the 
Advisory Panel by the Commission. 

Advisory 
Panel

(2) The Advisory Panel shall consist of a minimum of ten 
members appointed by the President on the recommendation 
of  the  Commission.  The  members  so  appointed  to  the 
Advisory  Panel  shall  consist  of  persons  with  recognised 
integrity, empathy, stature and respect with a demonstrated 
commitment to the values of truth, reconciliation, equity, and 
justice, and may include competent persons from any other 
jurisdiction. 

(3)  The  Commission  shall,  prior  to  the  submission  of 
the draft interim and final reports of the Commission to the 
President, make the same available to the Advisory Panel for 
its comments or recommendations for the consideration of 
the Commission. 

(4)  The  remuneration  payable  to  and  the  terms  of 
engagement  of  the  members  of  the Advisory  Panel  shall 
be decided by the President, on the recommendation of the 
Commission.

PART VII

FINANCE

33. The State shall provide the Commission with adequate 
funds to enable the Commission to discharge the functions 
assigned to it by this Act. Such funds shall be charged on the 
Consolidated Fund.

Funding of the 
Commission

34. The Commission shall commence with an initial capital 
of financial resources required for its work and such amount of 
this initial capital shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund 
and shall be credited to the Fund established under section 35.

Initial capital

5

10

15

20

25

30

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka28

35. (1) The Commission shall have its own Fund. There 

shall be credited to the Fund of the Commission —

Fund of the 
Commission 

(a)  money received from the Consolidated Fund, as 

initial capital of the Commission;

(b)  all such sums of money as may be received by the 
Commission in the discharge of its functions; 

(c)  all such sums of money as may be received by the 
Commission by way of donations, gifts or grants 
from any lawful source: 

          provided that such funds received from outside 
Sri Lanka are channeled through the Department 
of External Resources; and

(d)  all  funds  raised  by  the  Commission  in  terms  of 

paragraph (h) of section 13. 

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Commission 
all  such  sums  of  money  as  may  be  required  to  defray  any 
expenditure incurred by the Commission in the discharge of 
its functions under this Act.

36. The salaries of the members of the Commission shall be 
determined by the Cabinet of Ministers and shall be charged 
on the Consolidated Fund and shall not be diminished during 
their terms of office.

Remuneration 
of the 
members 

37. The Commission shall cause proper accounts to be kept 
of its income and expenditure, and assets and liabilities. The 
accounts of the Commission shall be audited by the Auditor- 
General in terms of Article 154 of the Constitution.

Accounts 
of the 
Commission 

38.  The  Commission  shall  submit  annual  reports  of 
the  Commission’s  accounts  to  Parliament,  which  shall  be 
simultaneously  published  and  disseminated  to  the  public 
including through electronic media and internet.

Annual 
Reports

5

10

15

20

25

30

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka   
29

PART VIII

THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COMMISSION’S 
RECOMMENDATIONS

5

10

39. Within one month from the date of publication of the 
first interim report or the making of interim recommendations 
by the Commission, the President shall establish a Monitoring 
Committee to monitor and facilitate the implementation of the 
recommendations  of  the  Commission  (hereinafter  reffered 
to as the “Committee”). The President shall specify the term 
of  office  of  the  Committee  in  consultation  with  the  Prime 
Minister, and may renew such term as deemed necessary.   

Implemen-
tation of the 
recommen-
dations of the 
Commission 

40.  (1) The  Committee, shall consist  of  eleven persons, 

appointed by the President, of whom - 

(a)  five  persons  shall  be  the  following  ex-officio 

15

members :-

Composition
of the
Committee 
& C.

(i)  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister 
assigned  the  subject  of  Finance  or  his 
nominee;

(ii)  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister 
assigned the subject of Justice, Law and Order 
or his nominee;

(iii)  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister 
assigned  the  subject  of    Defence  or  his 
nominee;

(iv)  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister 
assigned the subject of Public Administration 
or his nominee;

(v)  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister 
assigned the subject of Women, Child affairs 
and Social Empowerment or his nominee; and

20

25

30

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka30

(b)  six  other  persons  who  shall  be  citizens  of  Sri 
Lanka  appointed  on  the  recommendation  of  the 
Constitutional Council,

5

(2)  The  composition  of  the  Committee  shall  reflect  a 
gender balance and the pluralistic nature of Sri Lanka, and 
all members of the Committee shall be persons of integrity 
and credibility appointed on the basis of knowledge, practical 
experience and qualifications relevant to the carrying out of 
functions of the Commission.

10

(3) The members referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection 
(1) shall be appointed for a period of three years and shall be 
eligible for reappointment.

(4)  The  remuneration  of  the  members  appointed  under 
paragraph (b) of subsection (1) shall be determined by the 
Cabinet of Ministers.

15

(5) The provisions of subsections (3), (4) and (5) of section 
3, shall, mutatis mutandis apply in respect of appointments 
to the Committee.

20

25

(6)  In  carrying  out  its  work,  the  Committee  shall  liaise 
with Government ministries, departments, organisations or 
any person as it deems necessary, and such entities or person 
shall provide the Committee with the required support and 
assistance.

(7)  The  Government  shall  provide  the  Committee  with 
adequate resources to fulfill their responsibilities in monitoring 
and facilitating the implementation of the recommendations 
of the Commission.

(8) The office of a member of the  Committee shall become 

vacant –

30

(a)  upon removal from office by the President with the 

approval of the Constitutional Council; 

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka31

(b)  upon the death of such member;

(c)  upon such member resigning from such office by 

writing addressed to the President;

(d)  on the expiration of the term of the Committee and 
the consequent expiration of a member’s term of 
office. 

(9)  The  Committee  shall  submit  bi-annual  reports  to 
the  President  every  six  months,  evaluating  the  efforts  of 
the  Government  and  the  efforts  of  any  other  person  or 
body concerned to implement the recommendations of the 
Commission  and  other  previous  Commissions  of  Inquiry 
and the President shall table such reports in Parliament not 
later  than  two  weeks  from  the  receipt  of  such  report.  The 
Committee shall make copies of such reports available to the 
public in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages.   

(10) Where the implementation of any recommendation has 
not been fully complied with, the reports of the Committee 
shall  include  the  reasons  for  non-implementation  as 
provided by the persons or organisations responsible for the 
implementation thereof. 

PART IX

GENERAL

41.  The  members  of  the  Commission  (for  the  limited 
purpose  of  their  functions  under  the Act)  and  the  officers 
and staff of the Commission shall be deemed to be “public 
officers”  for  the  purposes  of  the  Penal  Code  (Chapter  19), 
the Anti-Corruption Act,  No.  9  of  2023  and  the  Evidence 
Ordinance (Chapter 14).

Members 
of the 
Commission 
to be deemed 
public officers

42. The Commission shall be deemed to be a “scheduled 
institution” within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Act, 
No. 9 of 2023, and the provisions of that Act shall be construed 
accordingly.

Commission 
to be deemed 
a scheduled 
institution 
under Anti-
Corruption 
Act

5

10

15

20

25

30

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka32

5

10

43. No member of the Commission or officer or member 
of the staff of the Commission shall make private use of, or 
profit from, any confidential information gained as a result 
of such member’s work in the Commission, or divulge such 
information to any other person except in the course of his 
functions as a member of the Commision or  officer or member 
of the,  staff of the Commission. This obligation shall survive 
the expiration of the term of the Commission. 

Prohibition 
on using 
information 
for private use 

44. Each Member of the Commission or officer or member 
of the staff of the Commission shall act impartially and without 
conflict of interest.  Accordingly, such member, officer or staff 
member shall avoid taking any action which could create an 
appearance  of  partiality  or  undermine  the  integrity  of  the 
Commission. 

Members and 
staff to be 
non-partisan 

15

45. (1) If any person – 

Offences

(a)  fails  without  cause  to  appear  before  the 
Commission pursuant to summons issued by 
the Commission; 

(b)  refuses without cause to answer any question 

put to him by the Commission; 

(c)  refuses or fails without cause to comply with 
the requirements of a notice or written order 
or  direction  issued  or  made  to  him,  by  the 
Commission; 

(d)  upon whom a summons is served, refuses or 
fails without cause to produce any document 
or  other  thing,  which  is  in  his  possession  or 
control; 

(e)  resists or obstructs an officer authorized under 
the Act  in  the  exercise  by  that  officer  of  the 
powers conferred on him; 

20

25

30

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka5

10

33

(f)  knowingly hinders or obstructs the Commission 
in  the  fulfillment  or  execution  of  its  powers, 
obligations and duties; 

(g)  performs  any  act  aimed  at  improperly 
influencing or interfering with the work of the 
Commission; 

(h) 

threatens, intimidates or improperly influences, 
or attempts to threaten, intimidate or improperly 
influence any person who has co-operated, or is 
intending to cooperate with the Commission; 

(i)  discloses  any  confidential  information  in 
contravention of the provisions of this Act; 

(j)  without reasonable excuse fails to comply with 

any other order of the Commission; or

15

(k)  contravenes the provisions of section 49,

such person shall be guilty of an offence of contempt against 
the authority of the Commission.

(2) Where it appears that a person is guilty of an offence 
of contempt, the Commission shall report such matter to the 
Court of Appeal. Every offence of contempt committed against 
the authority of the Commission shall be punishable by the 
Court  of Appeal  as  though  it  were  an  offence  of  contempt 
committed against the Court of Appeal. 

46.  (1)  No  order,  decision,  act  or  omission  of  the 
Commission or any member, officer or servant thereof acting 
in hereunder shall be questioned in any proceedings or any 
court of law, save and except in proceedings under Articles 
126 and 140 of the Constitution.

Special 
immunity for 
witnesses  

20

25

(2) The Writ jurisdiction conferred on the Court of Appeal 
by Article 140 of the Constitution in relation to any order, 

30

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka34

decision, act or omission of the Commission, a panel of the 
Commission or any member, officer or servant thereof, shall 
be exercised by the Supreme Court and not the Court of the 
Appeal. 

5

47. Subject to section 45 -

Protection of 
action 

(a)  no  proceedings  civil  or  criminal,  shall  be 
instituted against any member of the Commission 
or  any  officer  or  servant  appointed  to  assist  the 
Commission, other than for contempt against the 
authority of the Commission, for any act which in 
good faith is done or omitted to be done, by him, 
as such member or officer or servant; 

(b)  no proceedings civil or criminal, shall be instituted 
against  any  member  of  the  Commission  in 
respect  of  any  report  made  in  good  faith  by  the 
Commission under this Act or against any other 
person in respect of the publication by such person 
of a true accounts of such report; and

(c)  no proceedings civil, or criminal, or administrative, 
shall be instituted against any person consequent 
to such person in good faith, providing evidence, 
information or documentation to the Commission.

48. No evidence of any statement made or given by any 
person to or before the Commission for the purposes of the 
Commission shall be admissible against that person in any 
action,  prosecution,  or  other  proceedings  in  any  civil  or 
criminal court.   

No evidence 
shall be 
admissible

49. In the case of any inquiry into the disappearance of 
a person or persons within the mandate of the Commission, 
the Commission shall defer such investigation if requested 
by  the  Office  on  Missing  Persons  established  under  Office 
on  Missing  Persons  (Establishment, Administration  and 
Discharge  of  Functions) Act,  No.  14  of  2016,  until  such 
time when the Commission could resume such investigation 
without compromising the inquiries conducted by the Office 
on Missing Persons.  

Commission 
to defer 
investigations 
at the request 
of the Office 
of Missing 
Persons

10

15

20

25

30

35

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka35

50. (1) The Commission may make rules in respect of all 
or any matter for which rules are authorised or required by 
this Act to be made. 

Rules

(2) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall come into 

5

force upon publication in the Gazette.

51. The provisions of this Act shall apply notwithstanding 

any provisions to the contrary in any other written law. 

Provisions 
of this Act to 
prevail over 
other law

52. Unless the context otherwise requires, in this Act – 

Interpretation

“an aggrieved person” means;

10

15

(a)  a victim who has suffered damage or harm caused 
to  persons  as  a  result  of  loss  of  life,  or  damage 
or harm caused to persons or property, described 
under section 12; or

(b)  relatives of a victim described under paragraph (a), 
provided such victim is deceased, or a “missing 
person” as defined under section 27 of the Office 
on Missing Persons (Establishment, Administration 
and Discharge of Functions) Act, No. 14 of 2016;    

“children” mean persons under eighteen years of age;

20

“damage  or  harm  to  persons”  includes  physical  or  mental 

damage or harm; 

“damage or harm to property” includes destruction, damage, 

loss, or deprivation of property; and

“relatives” in relation to a deceased victim or a missing person 

25

include the following; 

(a)  spouse;

(b)  children;

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka36

(c)  parents;

(d)  brothers or sisters;

(e)  parents-in law, brothers or sisters-in law, sons or 

daughters in law; 

5

(f)  grandchildren and grandparents.  

53. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala 

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text
to prevail 
in case of 
any 
inconsistency

Commission for Truth, Unity and Reconciliation in Sri Lanka        
 
Printed at the Department of  Government Printing

