PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SHAILI  EDUCATIONAL  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 40 OF 2024

[Certified on 19th of  July, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 26, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs.24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Shaili  Educational  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

1

[Certified on 19th of July, 2024]

L.D.—O. (Inc) 17 /2021

AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  SHAILI EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Shaili
Educational Foundation” has heretofore been established
in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its
objects  and  transacting  all  matters  connected  with  the
said  Foundation  according  to  the  rules  agreed  to  by  its
members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects and
matters specified in this Act for which it was established:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has now applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the  said  application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:–

1.  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Shaili  Educational

Short  title

Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024.

Incorporation
of  the  Shaili
Educational
Foundation

2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of
this Act, such and so many persons as now are members of
the  Shaili  Educational  Foundation  (hereinafter  referred
to as the “Foundation”, and shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the body corporate hereby constituted shall
have  perpetual  succession  under  the  name  and  style  of
the “Shaili Educational Foundation” (hereinafter referred
to  as  the  “body  corporate”),  and  by  that  name  may  sue
and  be  sued  with  full  power  and  authority  to  have,  and
use a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

2

Shaili  Educational  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a
Voluntary Social Service Organization within the meaning
and  for  the  purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Service
Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31
of 1980 and the provisions of that Act shall apply to and in
relation  to  the  management  of  the  affairs  of  the  body
corporate.

General  objects
of  the  body
corporate

3.  (1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  any  other  written
law,  the  general  objects  for  which  the  body  corporate  is
constituted are hereby declared to be to–

(a)

(b)

assist   through   commencement   and promotion
of educational and creative activities the children,
elders and differently abled persons in Sri Lanka
in  developing  their  educational  skills  and
personalities  making  them  suitable  for  self-
employment;

identify requirements of children, youth, elders
and differently abled persons in Sri Lanka and to
provide  social  mobilization  programmes  and
educational  and  training  programmes  for  their
physical and mental well being;

(c) help children,  youth and elders of the community
to become balanced persons who are contended
and conversant with their own cultural heritage
and  identity;

(d)

commence and conduct programmes to preserve
traditional  heritage  of  Sri  Lanka  relating  to
culture, literature and arts; and

(e) provide  relief  services  to  differently  abled
children, youth and elders and the helpless in the
community.

Shaili  Educational  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

3

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified
in  subsection  (1),  the  body  corporate  shall  ensure  that
such  implementation  shall  be  carried  out  without  any
distinction  based  on  race,  religion,  language,  caste,
gender,  political  opinion,  place  of  birth  or  such  other
grounds.

4. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out
subject to necessary approvals under applicable written laws
and in such manner so as not to create any conflict between
the work of the body corporate and any work being carried
out  simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or of any Provincial Council.

Body  corporate
to  ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of  Ministry
or  Department  of
the  Government
or  Provincial
Council

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules
made under section 7, the management and administration
of the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by a
Management  Council  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“Council”) consisting of such number of office bearers as
may be specified by the rules made under section 7.

Management  of
the  affairs  of  the
body  corporate

(2) (a) The members of the Council of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date
of commencement of this Act, shall subject to the rules
made under paragraph (b), function as an Interim Council
of the body corporate until the first Council is appointed
or  elected  within  the  period  specified  in  paragraph  (d)
and  in  the  manner    provided  for  by  rules  made  under
section 7.

(b) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2), (3) and
(4 ) of section 7, the Interim Council of the body corporate
shall  have  the  power  to  make  rules  for  the  interim
administration of the body corporate not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act or any other written law.

4

Shaili  Educational  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

(c) Any decision of the Interim Council shall be taken

by the majority of its members present at any meeting.

(d) The  first  Council  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be
appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

(3)  (a)  Every  office  bearer  of  the  Council  appointed
under paragraph (d), including the patrons and advisers,
shall be appointed or elected for a period of three years
and  any  such  office  bearer,  patron  or  adviser  shall  be
eligible  for  re-appointment  or  re-election  after  lapse  of
the  said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Council shall having regard to the rules of the
body  corporate,  elect  or  appoint  a  person  to  fill  such
vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to
do,  perform  and  execute  all  such  acts  and  things  as  are
necessary or desirable for the achievement of the objects
of the body corporate or any one of them, including the
power–

(a)

to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwise
obtain  lands  or  buildings  which  may  be  required
for the purposes of the body corporate and to deal
with or dispose of the same as may be determined
by the Council with a view to promoting the objects
of the body corporate;

Powers  of  the
body  corporate

Shaili  Educational  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

5

(b)

to  enter  into  and  perform  or  carry  out,  whether
directly or through any officer or agent authorized
in  that  behalf  by  the  body  corporate,  all  such
contracts or agreements as may be necessary for the
attainment  of  the  objects  or  the  exercise  of  the
powers of the body corporate;

(c)

to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations from local
or foreign sources in cash or kind for the attainment
of the objects of the body corporate:

Provided that, the Council shall obtain the
prior  written  approval  of  the  Department  of
External Resources in respect of all foreign funds,
grants, gifts or donations received by or made to
the  body  corporate;

to  make,  draw,  accept,  discount,  endorse,
negotiate, buy, sell and issue bills of exchange,
cheques, promissory notes and other negotiable
instruments  and  to  open,  operate,  maintain  and
close accounts in any bank;

to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for  the  purposes  of  the  body  corporate,  in  such
manner as the Council may determine;

to  undertake,  accept,  execute,  perform  and
administer any lawful trust having objects similar
to  those  of  the  body  corporate  or  any  real  or
personal  property  with  a  view  to  promoting  the
objects of the body corporate;

(d)

(e)

(f)

6

Shaili  Educational  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

(g)

(h)

(i)

to  appoint,  employ,  dismiss  or  terminate  the
services  of officers  and  other  employees  of  the
body corporate and exercise disciplinary control
over  them  and  to  pay  them  such  salaries,
allowances and gratuities as may be determined
by the body corporate in terms of rules made under
section 7 of the Act;

to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a  view  to  promoting    the  objects  of  the  body
corporate;

to  liaise  and  co-ordinate  with  other  local  and
foreign  institutions  having  similar  objects  to
those of the body corporate; and

(j)

to train officers and other employees in Sri Lanka
or abroad for the purposes of the body corporate.

Rules  of  the
body  corporate

7. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from
time to time, at any general meeting of the body corporate
and by a majority of not less  than two-thirds of the members
present  and  voting,  to  make  rules,  not  inconsistent  with
the provisions of this Act or any other written law, for the
following matters: -

(a)

(b)

the   classification   of   membership,   admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by the members;

the  election  of  office  bearers  of  the  Council  or
vacation  of  or  removal  from  office  of  office
bearers and the powers, duties and functions of
the office bearers;

(c)

(d)

Shaili  Educational  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

7

the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties of various officers and other
employees of the body corporate;

the procedure to be followed for the summoning
and  holding  of  meetings  of  the  body  corporate
and of the Council, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;

(e)

the  qualifications  and  disqualifications  to  be  a
member of the Council and the body corporate;

(f)

the  administration  and  management  of  the
property of the body corporate;

(g)

the  procedure  and  manner  of  liaising  and
coordinating  with  other  local  and  foreign
institutions  having  objects  similar  to  that  of  the
body corporate; and

(h) generally, the management of the affairs of the body
corporate and the dissolution of the body corporate.

(2)  Any  rule  made  by  the  body  corporate  may  be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting
and in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of
this  section.

(3)  The  rules  made  under  subsection  (1),  shall  be
published in the Gazette within three months upon making
such rules and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

8

Shaili  Educational  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

(4) Every rule made by the body corporate within three
months after its publication in the Gazette, be brought before
Parliament for approval. Any rule which is not so approved
shall  be  deemed  to  be  rescinded  as  from  the  date  of  such
disapproval,  but  without  prejudice  to  anything  previously
done  thereunder.

(5)  Notification  of  the  date  on  which  any  such  rule  is
deemed  to  be  so  rescinded  under  subsection  (4)  shall  be
published in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all times be

subject to the rules of the body corporate.

Register  of
members

8. The Council shall maintain a register of members in
which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members shall be inscribed.

Fund  of  the
body  corporate

 9. (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2)  All  moneys  received  by  way  of  gifts,  bequests,
donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for
and on account of the body corporate shall be deposited
in one or more banks approved by the Council to the credit
of the body corporate  subject to the provisions of  section 6 (c).

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums of
money as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by
the  body  corporate  in  the  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

Accounts  and
auditing

10. (1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Shaili  Educational  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

9

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  the  Auditor-General  or  a  qualified  auditor  in
terms  of  the  provisions  of  Article  154  of  the  Constitution
and  be  certified  by  the  Auditor-General  or  such  qualified
auditor.

(4)  For  the  purposes  of  this  section  “qualified  auditor”

means -

(a)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate  to  practice  as  an  Accountant,  issued
by the Council of such Institute; or

(b)

a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of  which,  being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  of  any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute.

11.  (1)  The  Council  shall  prepare  a  report  of  the
activities  of  the  body  corporate  for  each  financial  year
and submit such report together with the audited statement
of  accounts  and  a  list  of  all  assets  and  liabilities  of  the
body  corporate  certified  by  the  Auditor-General  or  a
qualified auditor, to the Secretary of the Ministry of the
Minister  assigned  the  subject  of  Education  and  to  the
Registrar  of  Voluntary  Social  Service  Organizations
appointed  under  the  Voluntary  Social  Service

Annual  Report

10

Shaili  Educational  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31
of 1980 before the expiration of six months of the year
succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2)A  separate  statement  of  accounts  relating  to  the
foreign and local moneys received by the body corporate
and details of all contracts and agreements entered into
by the body corporate and the rules of the body corporate
made  under  section  7  during  the  financial  year  shall  be
attached to the report referred to in subsection (1).

12. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  body  corporate  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to  and  subscriptions  and
contributions  payable  to  the  Foundation  on  that  day  shall
be paid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

13. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall be able and capable in
law to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant,  gift,  testamentary  disposition  or  otherwise,  and  all
such  property  shall  be  held  by  the  body  corporate  for  the
purpose  of  this  Act  and  subject  to  the  rules  of  the  body
corporate made under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

14.  The  moneys  and  property  of  the  body  corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion  of  the  objects  of  the  body  corporate  and  no
portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  transferred  directly  or
indirectly  by  way  of  dividend,  bonus,  profit  or  otherwise
howsoever to the members of the body corporate.

Debts  due  by
and  payable  to
the  Foundation

Body  corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

Application  of
moneys  and
property

Shaili  Educational  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

11

15. (1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever,  except in the presence of two
members of the Council who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the  body
corporate

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Council as may be decided by the
Council.

16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the body corporate, but
shall be given or transferred to any other institution having
objects similar to those of the body corporate, and which is
by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income
or property among its members.

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  subsection  (1),  the  appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at  a  general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17.  Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.

18. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:-

“bank” means a bank licensed under the provisions
of the Banking Act, No.30 of 1988; and

“written law” shall have the same meaning assigned
to such expression in the Constitution.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic

Interpretation

19.  In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case  of
inconsistency

12

Shaili  Educational  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

