THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of April 22, 2022

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 25.04.2022)

JAYAMAGA  DEVELOPMENT,  SOCIAL  SERVICES
AND  CHARITY  FOUNDATION  (INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Jayamaga Development, Social Services and
Charity Foundation

To be presented in Parliament by  Hon. Hector Appuhamy,  M.P.
for Puttalam District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

2-2d

Jayamaga Development, Social Services and
Charity  Foundation  (Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE JAYAMAGA DEVELOPMENT,
SOCIAL SERVICES AND CHARITY FOUNDATION

WHEREAS  an  Society    called  and  known  as  the
“Jayamaga  Development,  Social  Services  and  Charity
Foundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the
purpose of effectually carrying out its  objects and transacting
all matters connected  with the said Foundation according to
the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted  several objects and
matters for which it was established,  and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the said application :

BE it  therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

5

10

15

1. This Act may be cited as the Jayamaga Development,
Social Services and Charity Foundation  (Incorporation) Act,
No.    of  2022.

Short  title

2. From and after  date of commencement of this Act, such
and so many persons as now are members of the  “Jayamaga
Development,  Social  Services  and  Charity  Foundation”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or  shall  hereafter
be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby constituted,
shall be  a body corporate, with perpetual succession, under the
name and style of the “Jayamaga Development, Social Services
and  Charity  Foundation”  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued, with
full power and authority to have and  use a common seal and  to
alter  the same at its pleasure.

20

25

Incorporation
of  the
Jayamaga
Development,
Social
Services  and
Charity
Foundation

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

2

Jayamaga Development, Social Services and
Charity  Foundation  (Incorporation)

(a) to  support  and  encourage  the  services  provided  by

senior citizens movements;

(b) to give aid by way of scholarships to any officer or
servants engaged in the furtherance of the objects of
the  Corporation;

(c) to  promote  understanding,  co-operation  and
friendship with similar institutions within and outside
Sri Lanka;

(d) to  organize  employees  of  small  and  medium  scale
industries and enterprises and working towards their
future  advancement;

(e) to  design  and  implement  social  mobilization
programmes  for  the  development  of  children  and
women  and  implementing  education  and  training
programmes for this purpose;

(f) to  provide  training  in  fields  of  engineering,
technology,  carpentry,  driving  and  computing  to
young  men  and  women  who  do  not  get  access  for
higher  education  and  directing  them  towards  such
vocations and starting training centres necessary for
it; and

(g) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for, and incidental or conducive to the attainment of
the above objects.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written  law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as  necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation or any one of them, including the power—

Powers  of  the
Corporation

5

10

15

20

25

Jayamaga Development, Social Services and
Charity  Foundation  (Incorporation)

3

(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations in

cash or kind;

(b) to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold, take
or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise dispose
of, any movable or immovable property and construct,
maintain and alter any buildings or works necessary
or convenient for the business of the Corporation;

(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory  notes  and  other  negotiable  instruments
and  to  open,  operate  and  close  bank  accounts  and
borrow or raise money with or without security;

(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes  of  the  Corporation  in  such  manner  as  the
Board of Management may determine;

(e) to enter into agreement or contracts with any person,
or body of persons whether incorporated in Sri Lanka
or  abroad  or  with  any  Government  Department,
Corporation,  Board,  Provincial  Council  or  Local
Authority for the achievement of the objects of the
Corporation;

(f) to  determine  the  fees  to  be  paid  in  respect  of
registration  of  different  categories  of  membership;
and

(g) appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services of
officers and servants of the Corporation and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation.

5

10

15

20

25

4

Jayamaga Development, Social Services and
Charity  Foundation  (Incorporation)

5.

(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being  of  the  Corporation  be  administered  by  a  Board  of
Directors  consisting  of  the  Director-General,  the  Deputy
Chairman,  the  Secretary,  Deputy  Secretary  and  Treasurer
and not less than seven other members elected in accordance
with such rules.

Management
of  the
Corporation

Rules  of  the
Corporation

(2) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall consist
of  the  members  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  day
immediately  preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this
Act.

6.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by the votes  not less than
two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provision of this Act or any other
written law, for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion of
members, the election of the Board of Management, for the
conduct of the duties of the office bearers, agents, officers
and  servants  of  the  Corporation,  for  the  procedure  to  be
followed in the transaction of business by the Corporation
and  Board  of  Management  and  generally,  for  the
management  of  the  affairs  of  the  Corporation  and  the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may
at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.

(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to

the rules of the Corporation.

7.

(1)  The  Corporation  shall  have  its  own  fund.  All
moneys  received  by  way  of  gifts,  bequests,  donations,
transfers,    subscriptions,  contributions,  or  fees  shall  be
deposited  to  the  credit  of  the  Corporation  in  one  or  more
Banks as the Board of Management shall determine.

Fund  of  the
Corporation

5

10

15

20

25

30

Jayamaga Development, Social Services and
Charity  Foundation  (Incorporation)

5

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.

5

10

(3)  The  moneys  and  property  of  the  Corporation
whosesoever  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion of the objects as set forth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.

8.

(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the

calendar year.

Accounts  and
Audit

(2)  The  Corporation  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to  be
kept  of  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities  and
all other transactions of the Corporation.

15

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a

qualified auditor as  may be determined by the Board.

In this section, “qualified auditor” means —

(a)

20

25

(b)

30

an  individual  who  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant  issued  by    the  Council  of  such
institute;  or

a  firm  of  Accountants  each  of  the  resident
partners  of  which,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or  of  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
institute.

6

Jayamaga Development, Social Services and
Charity  Foundation  (Incorporation)

9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any  instrument  whatsoever,  except  in  the  presence  of  the
Director-General  and  the  Secretary  who  shall  sign  their
names on the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation

10. All debts and liabilities of the foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts  due  to,  and  subscriptions  and  contributions  payable
to the foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Corporation

11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law,
to take and  hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift,  testamentary  disposition  or  otherwise,  and  all  such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being
of the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

12.

If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Corporation  there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation but shall be given or
transferred to some other Foundation or Foundations having
objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is or
are, by its rules thereof prohibited from distributing any income
or property among its or their members. Such Foundation or
Foundations  shall  be  determined  by  the  Board  at  or
immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Jayamaga Development, Social Services and
Charity  Foundation  (Incorporation)

7

13. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate  or  of  any  other  person,  except  such  as  are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.

5

Saving  of  the
Rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

14.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

8

Jayamaga Development, Social Services and
Charity  Foundation  (Incorporation)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

