PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

BUREAU  OF  REHABILITATION
ACT,  No.  2  OF  2023

[Certified on 24th of  January, 2023]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 27, 2023

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 45.00

Postage : Rs. 50.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

1

[Certified on 24th of January, 2023]

L.D.— O. 8/2018

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A BUREAU TO BE
CALLED AND KNOWN AS THE BUREAU OF REHABILITATION; TO
REGULATE ITS POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS AND TO PROVIDE FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS having regard to the need and the importance of
regulating the rehabilitation of those who have become drug
dependant  persons  and  such  other  persons  as  may  be
identified  in  terms  of  any  other  law  and  it  has  become  a
serious problem and a national issue:

Preamble

AND WHEREAS the office of the Commissioner-General of
Rehabilitation has already been created under the provisions
of Public Security Ordinance (Chapter 40) and Prevention
of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 48 of 1979:

AND  WHEREAS,  it  has  become  a  matter  of  national
importance  to  establish  a  Bureau  for  the  purpose  of
rehabilitating the above said persons:

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Bureau of Rehabilitation
Act, No. 2 of 2023, and the provisions of this Act other than
this  section  shall  come  into  operation  on  such  date  as  the
Minister  may  appoint  by  Order  published  in  the  Gazette
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “appointed  date”).  The
provisions of this section shall come into operation on the
date on which this Act becomes an Act of Parliament.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BUREAU OF REHABILITATION

Short  title  and
date  of  operation

2.

(1) There shall be established a Bureau which shall
be called the “Bureau of Rehabilitation” (hereinafter referred
to as the “Bureau”).

Establishment
of  the  Bureau
of
Rehabilitation

2

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

(2)  The  Bureau  shall,  by  the  name  assigned  to  it  by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.

3. The objective of the Bureau shall be to rehabilitate
drug  dependant  persons  or  any  other  person  as  may  be
identified  by  law  as  a  person  who  requires  rehabilitation
and which may include treatment and adoption of various
therapies  in  order  to  ensure  effective  reintegration  and
reconciliation,  through  developing  socio-economic
standards.

Objective  of  the
Bureau

Powers,  duties
and  functions
of  the  Bureau

4. The powers, duties and functions of the Bureau shall

be to –

(a) provide  treatment  and  rehabilitation  to  drug
dependant  persons,  who  in  terms  of  the  Drug
Dependant Persons (Treatment and rehabilitation)
Act,  No.  54  of  2007  request  treatment  and
rehabilitation  or  are  required  by  such  law  to  be
provided with treatment and rehabilitation;

(b) provide rehabilitation to any person who in terms
of  a  relevant  law,  requests  rehabilitation  or  is
required  by  such  law  to  be  provided  with
rehabilitation;

(c) enhance the employability of persons undergoing
treatments and rehabilitation, minimizing the risk
of  socio-economic  marginalization;

(d) engage  in  an  organized  manner,  the  potentials  of
persons  who  are  undergoing  treatments  and
rehabilitation to use them productively to enhance
the  economy;

(e) advice the Minister with regard to programmes for
rehabilitation, treatment and aftercare having regard
to the basic norms of Human Rights;

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

3

(f) review, monitor and provide any other assistance
to persons who have re-integrated into the society
after treatments and rehabilitation;

(g) receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or kind:

Provided  however,  the  Bureau  shall  obtain  the
prior written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the  subject  of  Finance,  in  respect  of  all  foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Bureau;

(h) open and maintain any account with any bank as it
may  think  appropriate  and  such  account  shall  be
operated in accordance with prevailing applicable
written laws;

(i) manage, control, administer and operate the Fund

of the Bureau;

(j) invest  such  amount  of  money  belonging  to  the
Bureau  as  are  not  immediately  required  for  the
purposes of this Act;

(k) acquire,  hold,  take  or  give  on  lease  or  hire,
mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of any
movable or immovable property;

(l) enter into and perform either directly or indirectly
through any officer or agent of the Bureau, all such
contracts or agreements as may be necessary, for
the exercise of the powers and the carrying out of
its  functions;

(m) make rules in respect of the administration of the

affairs of the Bureau;

(n) establish and maintain Centers for Rehabilitation:

4

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

Provided however, the centers established for the
rehabilitation  of  drug  dependant  persons  to  be
established and maintained under the direction of
the National Dangerous Drugs Control Board;

(o) conduct 

training  programs 

relating 

to

rehabilitation;  and

(p) do all such other acts which may be incidental or
conducive to the attainment of the objective of this
Act or the exercise of the powers assigned to the
Bureau under this Act.

PART II

Administration
and
management  of
the  Bureau
vested  in  the
Council

ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF AFFAIRS OF THE BUREAU

5.

(1) The administration, management and control of
the  affairs  of  the  Bureau  shall  be  vested  in  a  Governing
Council (in this Act referred to as the “Council”).

(2) The Council shall, for the purpose of administering
the affairs of the Bureau, exercise, perform and discharge the
powers,  duties  and  functions  conferred  on,  assigned  to  or
imposed on the Bureau by this Act.

Constitution  of
the  Council

6. The Council shall consist of–

(a)

the following ex-officio members, namely–

(i) a  representative  of  the  National
Dangerous Drugs Control Board;

(ii) the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister  assigned  the  subject  of
Defence  or  his  representative  not
below  the  rank  of  an  Additional
Secretary of that Ministry;

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

5

(iii) the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister  to  whom  the  Bureau  of
Rehabilitation  is  assigned  under
Article 44 or 45 of the Constitution or
his representative not below the rank
of  an  Additional  Secretary  of  that
Ministry;

(iv) the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister  assigned  the  subject  of
Health or his representative not below
the rank of an Additional Secretary of
that  Ministry;

(v) the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister  assigned  the  subject  of
Education  or  his  representative  not
below  the  rank  of  an  Additional
Secretary of that Ministry; and

(vi) the Inspector General of Police or his
representative not below the rank of a
Deputy Inspector General of Police;
and

(b) the following five members appointed by the

Minister:-

(i) two  persons  who  shall  possess
professional
and 
academic 
qualifications and have experience in
the fields of rehabilitation,

(ii) two  persons  who  shall  possess
academic 
professional
and 
qualifications and have experience in
the field of social integration; and

6

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

(iii) a person who shall possess academic
and  professional  qualifications  and
has experience in the field of law and
order,

(hereinafter  referred  to  as  “appointed
members”).

Chairperson  of
the  Council

7. 

(1) The Minister shall appoint one of the appointed

members to be the Chairperson of the Council.

(2) The Chairperson may resign from his office by letter
addressed  to  the  Minister  and  such  resignation  shall  be
effective  from  the  date  on  which  it  is  accepted  by  the
Minister.

(3)  The  Minister  may  for  reasons  assigned  remove  the

Chairperson from the office of Chairperson.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),
the term of office of the Chairperson shall be the period of
his membership of the Council.

(5)  Where  the  Chairperson  is  temporarily  unable  to
exercise,  perform  and  discharge  the  powers,  duties  and
functions  of  his  office  due  to  ill  health,  other  infirmity,
absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may
appoint any other appointed member to act as the Chairperson
in addition to his normal duties as an appointed member.

8. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed

or continuing as a member of the Council, if he –

(a) is or becomes a member of Parliament or of any
Provincial Council or of any local authority;

(b) is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c) is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other
country found or declared to be of unsound mind;

Disqualifications
from  being  a
member  of  the
Council

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

7

(d) is a person who having been declared insolvent or
bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka and is
an undischarged insolvent or bankrupt;

(e) is subject to an ongoing investigation in respect of
an  offence  involving  dangerous  drugs,  narcotic
drugs or psychotropic substances or fraud;

(f) is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment
of more than six months imposed by any court in
Sri Lanka or any other country;

(g) holds  or  enjoys  any  right  or  benefit  under  any
contract made by or on behalf of the Bureau; or

(h) has  any  financial  or  other  interest  as  is  likely  to
affect  prejudicially  the  discharge  by  him  of  his
functions as a member of the Council.

9. Every appointed member of the Council shall, unless
he vacates office earlier by resignation, death or removal,
hold office for a period of three years from the date of his
appointment and unless removed from office shall be eligible
for reappointment for not more than one further term, whether
consecutive or otherwise.

Term  of  office

 10.

(1) Any appointed member of the Council may at
any  time,  resign  from  his  office  by  a  letter  to  that  effect,
addressed  to  the  Minister,  and  such  resignation  shall  be
effective from the date on which it is accepted by the Minister
in writing.

Resignation  and
removal

(2)  Where  any  appointed  member  by  reason  of  illness,
infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka is temporarily unable to
discharge  the  functions  of  his  office,  the  Minister  may,
having regard to the provisions of paragraph (b) of section 6,
appoint some other person to act in his place.

8

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

(3)  The  Minister  may  for  reasons  assigned,  remove  an
appointed member from office. An appointed member who
has  been  removed  from  office  shall  not  be  eligible  for
reappointment as a member of the Council or to serve the
Council in any other capacity.

(4)  Where  an  appointed  member  dies,  resigns  or  is
removed from office, the Minister may having regard to the
provisions  of  paragraph  (b)  of  section  6,  appoint  another
person in his place and the person so appointed shall hold
office for the unexpired period of the term of office of the
member whom he succeeds.

Quorum  and
meetings  of  the
Council

11.

(1)  The  meetings  of  the  Council  shall  be  held  at
least once in every month and the quorum for a meeting of
the Council shall be seven members.

(2) The Chairperson shall preside at every meeting of the
Council. In the absence of the Chairperson from any meeting
of the Council, a member elected by the members present
shall preside at such meeting.

(3) A meeting of the Council may be held either-

(a) by  the  number  of  members  who  constitute  a
quorum being assembled at the place, date and
time appointed for the meeting; or

(b) by  means  of  audio-visual  communication  by
which  all  members  participating  and
constituting a quorum can simultaneously see
and  hear  each  participating  member  for  the
duration of the meeting.

(4)  All  questions  for  a  decision  at  any  meeting  of  the
Council  shall  be  decided  by  the  vote  of  the  majority  of
members present at such meeting. In the case of an equality
of votes, the Chairperson shall, in addition to his vote have
a casting vote.

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

9

(5)  Subject  to  the  preceding  provisions  of  this  section,
the  Council  may  regulate  the  procedure  in  relation  to  the
meetings of the Council and the transaction of business at
such meetings.

12. The Council may act notwithstanding any vacancy
among its members and any act or proceeding of the Council
shall not be or deemed to be invalid by reason only of the
existence of any vacancy among its members or any defect
in the appointment of a member thereof.

Acts  or
proceedings  of
the  Commission
deemed  not  to
be  invalid  by
reason  of  any
vacancy

13. The  members  of  the  Council  shall  be  paid
remuneration in such manner and at such rates as may be
determined  by  the  Minister,  with  the  concurrence  of  the
Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

Remuneration  of
the  members  of
the  Council

14.

(1) The seal of the Bureau shall be in the custody of

such person as the Council may decide from time to time.

Seal  of  the
Bureau

(2) The seal of the Bureau may be altered in such manner

as may be determined by the Council.

(3)  The  seal  of  the  Bureau  shall  not  be  affixed  to  any
instrument  or  document  except  with  the  sanction  of  the
Council  and  in  the  presence  of  the  Chairperson  and  one
other member of the Council who shall sign the instrument
or document in token of their presence:

Provided however, where the Chairperson is unable to be
present at the time when the seal of the Bureau is affixed to
any instrument or document, any other member of the Council
authorised in writing by the Chairperson in that behalf shall
be  competent  to  sign  such  instrument  or  document  in
accordance with the preceding provision of this subsection.

Appointment  of
the  Chief
Executive
Officer  of  the
Bureau

10

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

(4) The Bureau shall maintain a register of the instruments
and  documents  to  which  the  seal  of  the  Bureau  has  been
affixed.

PART III

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND THE STAFF OF THE BUREAU

15.

(1) There shall be a Chief Executive Officer of the
Bureau who shall be called and known as the Commissioner-
General  of  Rehabilitation  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“Commissioner-  General”),  appointed  by  the  Council  in
consultation with the Minister and on the recommendation
of  the  Minister  assigned  the  subject  of    Defence.  The
Commissioner- General, unless he vacates office earlier by
death, by operation of law, resignation or removal shall hold
office  for  a  term  of  two  years  and  shall  be  eligible  for
reappointment subject to a maximum period of any two terms
of office whether consecutive or otherwise.

(2)  The  Commissioner-  General  shall  subject  to  the

general directions and supervision of the Council–

(a) be charged with the administration of the affairs of
the Bureau and all the Centres established under it
including  the  administration  and  control  of  the
staff;

(b) be responsible for the execution of all decisions of

the  Council;  and

(c) carry out all such functions as may be assigned to

him by the Council.

(3) The Commissioner- General shall be present and speak
at any meeting of the Council, but shall not be entitled to
vote at such meeting.

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

11

(4) The Commissioner- General may, with the approval
of the Council, wherever he considers it necessary to do so,
delegate in writing to any officer or employee of the Bureau,
any of his powers, duties or functions conferred or imposed
on, or assigned to him by this Act and the officer or employee
to whom any such power, duty or function is delegated shall
exercise, perform or discharge them subject to the directions
of the Commissioner - General.

(5) The Council may remove the Commissioner-General

from office –

(a) if he becomes permanently incapable of performing

his  duties;

(b) if  he  had  done  any  act  which  the  Council  has
decided to be of a fraudulent or illegal character or
is prejudicial to the interests of the Bureau; or

(c) has failed to comply with any direction issued by

the  Council.

(6)  The  Commissioner-General  shall  be  paid  such

remuneration as may be determined by the Council.

16.

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Bureau
may employ or appoint such officers and employees as may
be  necessary  for  the  efficient  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions.

Staff  of  the
Bureau

(2)  The  Council  shall  have  the  power  subject  to  the

provision of the Act to –

(a) exercise disciplinary control over and dismiss the
officers  and  employees  of  the  Bureau  appointed
under subsection (1);

(b) determine  the  terms  and  conditions  of  service  of
officers  and  employees  of  the  Bureau  appointed
under subsection (1); and

12

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

(c) fix the rates at which such officers and employees
shall be remunerated with the concurrence of the
Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

(3) All officers and employees of the Bureau shall, within
one month of employment, declare in writing to the Bureau
of their personal direct or indirect interest to the affairs and
transactions  of  the  Bureau  including  those  of  their  close
relations or, concerns in which such officer or employee has
a substantial interest.

(4) The Bureau may establish and regulate pension and
provident  funds  and  schemes  for  the  benefit  of  the
Commissioner- General and its officers and employees and
their dependants and nominees with the concurrence of the
Minister  assigned  the  subject  of  Finance  and  may  make
contributions to any such fund or scheme.

(5) The Bureau shall promote and sponsor the training of
its officers and employees and for this purpose, the Bureau
shall be authorised to defray the costs of study, in Sri Lanka
or abroad of the officers and employees of the Bureau who
are of proven merit as determined by the Bureau.

(6) The Bureau shall establish a code of conduct which
shall  be  applicable  to  the  officers  and  employees  of  the
Bureau.

(7) The Bureau shall not appoint any person to the staff

of the Bureau under subsection (1), where such person–

(a) has  been  previously  found  guilty  of  serious
misconduct by a court or tribunal or has been subject
to a disciplinary action by a regulatory body;

(b) has been previously dismissed from office; or

(c) has  committed  a  breach  of  the  provisions  of  this

Act, regulations or rules made thereunder.

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

13

(8) At the request of the Bureau any officer in the public
service may, with the consent of the officer and the Public
Service  Commission  established  by  the  Constitution  be
temporarily appointed to the Bureau for such period as may
be  determined  by  the  Bureau  or  with  like  consent,  be
permanently appointed to such staff.

(9) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Bureau,  the  provisions  of
subsection  (2)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.

(10) Where  any  officer  in  the  public  service  is
permanently appointed to the staff of the Commission, the
provisions  of  subsection  (3)  of  section  14  of  the  National
Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis
mutandis, apply to and in relation to such officer.

(11) Where  the  Bureau  employs  any  person  who  has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, any
period  of  service  to  the  Bureau  by  that  person  shall  be
regarded  as  service  to  the  Government  for  the  purpose  of
discharging the obligations of such agreement.

(12) The Bureau may with the consent of such officer or
employee propose secondment of its officers or employees
to  other  state  institutions  or  regulatory  authorities  in
Sri Lanka or abroad for a period determined by the Bureau
on an assignment agreed upon between such institution or
the  authority  and  the  Bureau.  The  period  of  secondment
shall be deemed to be considered as service to the Bureau.

17. The Services of any Medical Officer or any other
officer  or  employee  of  the  Department  of  Health  or  any
university or any medical practitioner or any other competent
person engaged in a similar service, may be obtained, subject
to the approval of the Director-General of Health Services,
or other relevant authority as the case may be, to assist in the
Centres for Rehabilitation established under this Act.

Use  of  services
of  officers  of
Department  of
Health,  etc.

14

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

PART IV

FINANCE

Fund  of  the
Bureau

18.

(1) The Bureau shall have its own Fund (hereinafter

referred to as “the Fund”).

(2) All money lying to the credit of the Commissioner -
General of Rehabilitation on the day immediately preceding
the  appointed  date  shall  be  transferred  to  the  Fund  with
effect from the appointed date.

(3) There shall be credited to the Fund –

(a) all sums of money as may be voted from time to
time by Parliament, for the use of the Bureau;

(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Bureau in the exercise and discharge of its powers,
duties and functions under this Act; and

(c) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Bureau by way of income, fees, charges, grants, gifts
or donations from any source whatsoever whether
within or outside Sri Lanka:

Provided that, the Bureau shall obtain the prior
written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the  subject  of  Finance,  in  respect  of  all  foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Bureau.

(4) There shall be paid out of the Fund –

(a) all  such  sums  of  money  as  are  required  to
defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Bureau  in  the  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions
under this Act; and

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

15

(b) all such sums of money as are required to be
paid out of the Fund by or under this Act.

19.

(1)  The  financial  year  of  the  Bureau  shall  be  the

calender year.

Financial  year
and  audit  of
accounts

(2) The Council shall cause proper books of accounts to
be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Bureau.

(3)  The  provisions  of  Article  154  of  the  Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to the audit of accounts of the Bureau.

(4)  The  Council  shall  submit  the  audited  statement  of
accounts together with the auditor’s report to the Minister
within one hundred and fifty days of the end of the financial
year to which such report relates. The Minister shall place
such statement and the report before Parliament within two
months of the receipt thereof.

PART V

GENERAL

Delegation  of
the  powers  of
the  Council

20.

(1) The Council may in writing and subject to such
conditions  as  may  be  specified  therein,  delegate  to  the
Commissioner-General  the  powers,  duties  and  functions
conferred  on  the  Council  under  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of
subsection (2) of section 16 and subsection (2) of section 19
and the Commissioner-General shall exercise, perform and
discharge  such  powers,  duties  and  functions  in  the  name
and on behalf of the Council.

(2)  The  Council  may,  notwithstanding  any  delegation
made  under  subsection  (1),  by  itself  exercise,  perform  or
discharge any power, duty or function so delegated and may
at any time revoke any such delegation.

16

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

Protection  of
officers  of  the
Bureau  from  suit
or  prosecution

21.

(1) A liability, whether civil or criminal, shall not
be  attached  to  any  officer  of  the  Bureau  or  to  any  officer
authorised by such officer, for anything which in good faith
is  done  in  the  exercise,  performance  or  discharge  of  any
power, duty or function imposed or conferred on the Bureau
under this Act.

(2)  Any  expense  incurred  by  the  Bureau  in  any  suit  or
prosecution  brought  by  or  against  the  Bureau  before  any
court shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund, and any
costs paid to, or recovered by, the Bureau in any such suit or
prosecution shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person in any suit
or  prosecution  brought  against  him  before  any  court  in
respect of any act which is done or purported to be done by
him under this Act or any appropriate instrument, or on the
direction of the Bureau, shall, if the court holds that the act
was  done  in  good  faith,  be  paid  out  of  the  Consolidated
Fund, unless such expense is recovered by him in such suit
or prosecution.

Centres  for
Rehabilitation

22. (1) For the purposes of this Act, the Minister may, by
Order  published  in  the  Gazette,  establish  Centres  for
Rehabilitation  for  the  treatment  and  rehabilitation  of
drug dependant persons and such persons who are identified
by law and whose rehabilitation is provided for by law:

Provided,  the  Treatment  Centres  established  under  this
Act  to  provide  treatment  and  rehabilitation  to  drug
dependant persons shall be published in the Gazette under
the provisions of section 2 of the Drug Dependant Persons
(Treatment and Rehabilitation) Act, No. 54 of 2007 and shall
be subjected to the provisions of that Act.

(2) It shall be the duty of every Magistrate to visit every
Centre for Rehabilitation situated within the judicial division
in respect of which he is appointed, at least once in every

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

17

month to ensure that the persons undergoing rehabilitation
at the Centre are protected to the extent provided for in the
Convention  Against  Torture  and  other  Cruel,  Inhuman  or
Degrading Treatment or Punishment Act, No. 22 of 1994.

(3) For the purposes of subsection (2), the Magistrate who

visits the Centre for Rehabilitation shall-

(a) personally 

see 

the  person  undergoing
rehabilitation, and look into his well-being, welfare
and conditions under which such person is kept at
such Centre and may examine the records and log
books maintained at the Centre; and

(b)

record  his  observations  and  any  complaint  the
person undergoing rehabilitation may make.

(4) Where the Magisrate is of the opinion, that the persons
undergoing  rehabilitation  may  have  been  subjected  to
torture, the Magistrate may direct that the person undergoing
rehabilitation be produced before a Judicial Medical Officer
or a Goverment Medical Officer for medical examination,
and  a  report  be  submitted  by  such  Medical  Officer  to  the
Magistrate.

(5) Where the report of such Medical Officer reveals that
the person undergoing rehabilitation has been subjected to
torture,  the  Magistrate  shall  make  an  appropriate  order
including an order that such person be immediately admitted
to a Government hospital for medical treatment and that the
officer-in-charge of such Centre immediately inform the court
that made the order for the rehabilitation of such person of
the findings of the Government Medical Officer.

(6) The Magistrate shall also direct the Inspector General
of  Police  to  commence  an  investigation  into  the  alleged
torture in order to enable the Attorney-General to institute
criminal proceedings against the person who is alleged to
have committed the torture.

Supply  of  drugs

Duty  to
maintain
secrecy

18

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

(7) The Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka may on
its own volition or on a complaint received, visit every Centre
to  ensure  that  the  rights  of  the  persons  undergoing
rehabilitation  at  the  Centre  are  protected  to  the  extent
provided  by  law,  and  make  appropriate  recommendations
in terms of the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka Act,
No. 21 of 1996.

23. Any person without authority introduces or attempts
to introduce into any Centre for Rehabilitation, or supplies
or  attempts  to  supply  any  person  in  such  Centre  with  a
dangerous drug, narcotic drug or psychotropic substance or
any unauthorised article as may be prescribed, commits an
offence  under  this  Act  and  shall  be  liable  on  conviction
after summary trial by a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding
five hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a period not exceeding two years or to both
such fine and imprisonment.

24.

(1) Every member of the Council, the Commissioner-
General and every officer or employee of the Bureau shall,
before entering into the duties of his office sign a declaration
that he will not disclose any information received by him or
coming to his knowledge in the exercise, performance and
discharge of his powers, duties and functions under this Act,
except for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of
this Act or the provisions of the Right to Information Act,
No. 12 of 2016 .

(2) All records pertaining to such person in the custody
of a Centre for Rehabilitation shall be confidential and shall
not be released except-

(a) upon request by such person or the next of kin of
such person or an Attorney-at-law representing such
person; or

(b) on  an  order  of  court  or  in  connection  with  an
investigation in respect of the commission of  an
offence:

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

19

Provided that, such person or unless such person
has instructed not to share the information, the next
of  kin  of  such  person  or  an  Attorney-at-Law
representing such person shall be entitled to receive
information pertaining to the person in the custody
of the Rehabilitation Centre, including information
relating  to  the  treatment  or  rehabilitation  of  such
person.

(3) Any  person  who  contravenes  the  provisions  of
subsection (2) commits an offence under this Act, and shall
be liable on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate
to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding
twelve months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

25. Any person employed in a Centre for Rehabilitation
who strikes, wounds or willfully neglects any person under
rehabilitation commits an offence under this Act and shall
be liable on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate
to  a  fine  not  exceeding  two  hundred  thousand  rupees  or
imprisonment of either description for a period not exceeding
eighteen months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

26. Any person who unlawfully obstructs or attempts
to unlawfully obstruct any person employed in any Centre
for  Rehabilitation  in  the  performance  of  his  lawful  duties
under this Act, commits an offence under this Act and shall
be liable on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate
to  a  fine  not  exceeding  fifty  thousand  rupees  or  to
imprisonment of either description for a period not exceeding
six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Striking  etc.  of
persons  under
treatment

Obstruction  of
employees  an
offence

27.

(1) Where any person undergoing rehabilitation in
a Centre for Rehabilitation established under the provisions
of this Act, escapes from such Centre, he may be apprehended
by  any  police  officer,  or  any  officer  appointed  under  this
Act  and  immediately  returned  to  the  Centre  for
Rehabilitation.

Apprehension
of  persons
escaping

20

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

(2) It shall be the duty of any person employed in a Centre
for  Rehabilitation  to  preserve  order  and  discipline  among
the persons undergoing rehabilitation in the Centre and for
such  purpose  it  shall  be  lawful  for  such  person  to  use
minimum force as may reasonably be necessary to compel
obedience to any lawful directions given by him.

(3) It shall be the duty of the Commissiner-General of
Rehabilitation,  or  a  person  duly  authorised  by  him  to
immediately  inform  the  Magistrate  within  the  judicial
division in which such Centre is located of any exercise of
powers under subsections (1) and (2).

28.  Where  any  person  contravenes  any  provision  of
this Act or any regulation made thereunder and no penalty
has  been  specified  under  this  Act  in  respect  of  such
contravention,  such  person  shall,  on  conviction  after
summary  trail  by  a  Magistrate,  be  liable  to  a  fine  not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding six months or to both
such fine and imprisonment.

29.

(1) The Bureau shall create, manage and maintain a
database which will include all particulars of the rehabilitees.
Such  database  shall  also  include  details  of  previous
rehabilitation  assistance  that  each  rehabilitee  may  have
received from any other State Authority or agency, details
relating to the rehabilitation that a person has undergone as
part  of  the  rehabilitation  process  and  any  other  matter  as
may be prescribed by regulations.

(2) The Bureau shall take all necessary steps including
technical safeguards to ensure the security of all its databases
and data.

30. The  Bureau  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  Scheduled
Institution  within  the  meaning  of  the  Bribery  Act
(Chapter 26)  and  the  provisions  of  that  Act  shall  be
construed  accordingly.

Penalties  for
contraventions
for  which  no
specific
provisions  have
been  made

Database

Bureau  deemed
to  be  a
Scheduled
Institution
within  the
meaning  of  the
Bribery  Act

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

21

31. All  members  of  the  Council,  the  Commissioner-
General and all officers and employees of the Bureau shall
be deemed to be public servants within the meaning and for
the purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

32. The  Minister  may  from  time  to  time  issue  to  the
Council  general  or  special  directions  as  to  the  exercise,
performance  and  discharge  of  the  powers,  duties  and
functions of the Council.

Members,
Commissioner-
General,
officers  and
employees  of
the  Bureau
deemed  to  be
public  servants

Directions  of
the  Minister

33.

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Council
may  make  rules  in  respect  of  all  or  any  of  the  following
matters:-

Rules

(a) all matters for which rules are authorised or required

to be made under this Act;

(b) the meetings of the Council and the procedure to

be followed at such meeting;

(c) the  appointment,  promotion,  remuneration  and
disciplinary control of officers and employees and
the grant of leave and other emoluments to officers
and employees; and

(d) any matter connected with the affairs of the Bureau:

Provided  that,  the  Council  shall  not  have  the
power  to  make  rules  in  respect  of  any  matter  for
which regulations are required to be made in terms
of this Act.

(2) Every rule made by the Bureau shall be approved by
the  Minister  and  published  in  the  Gazette  and  shall  come
into operation on the date of its publication or on such later
date as may be specified therein.

34.

(1)  The  Minister  may  make  regulations  for  the
purpose of carrying out and giving effect to the provisions
of this Act.

Regulations

22

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred on subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations in respect of the following:-

(a) the maintenance of Centres for Rehabilitation;

(b) the  programmes  for  rehabilitation,  treatment,
aftercare  and  support  services  in  respect  of  each
category  of  persons  who  will  be  rehabilitated  by
the  Bureau;

(c) the terms and conditions relating to the release of
persons  admitted  to  a  Centre  for  Rehabilitation;
and

(d) the  maintenance  of  a  database,  records  and  log

books at Centres for Rehabilitation:

Provided  that,  the  Minister  shall  obtain  the
concurrence  of  the  National  Dangerous  Drugs
Control Board, when any regulation in relation to
the Centres for Rehabilitation for the treatment and
rehabilitation of drug dependant persons is made:

Provided further, that the Minister shall obtain
the  concurrence  of  the  Council  appointed  under
this Act before making regulations under this Act.

(3)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  shall  be
published  in  the  Gazette  and  shall  be  brought  before
Parliament for approval as soon as may be convenient. Such
Regulations  shall  come  into  force  upon  its  approval  by
Parliament or any subsequent date as may be specified by
Parliament.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is so

disapproved shall be published in the Gazette.

Savings

35. Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  any

other written law–

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

23

(a) all  movable  and  immovable  property  of  the
Commissioner-General of Rehabilitation on the day
immediately preceding the appointed date shall on
and after the appointed date be deemed to be the
movable and immovable property of the Bureau;

(b) the  Commissioner-General  of  Rehabilitation
holding  office  immediately  preceding  the
appointed  date  shall  be  deemed  to  have  been
appointed as such under this Act and continue to
hold office until the end of his tenure or until a new
Commissioner- General is appointed under this Act;

(c) all  officers  and  employees  of  the  Commissioner-
General of Rehabilitation holding office on the day
immediately  preceding  the  appointed  date  be
deemed  to  be  the  officers  and  employees  of  the
Bureau  and  such  officers  and  employees  shall
continue to hold office in the Bureau on the same
terms  and  conditions  enjoyed  by  them  under  the
Commissioner-General  of  Rehabilitation
immediately  preceeding  the  appointed  date;

(d) all contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements, guarantees,
powers of attorney, grants of legal representation
and  other  instruments  of  whatever  nature  of  the
Commissioner- General of Rehabilitation subsisting
and having effect on the day immediately preceding
the  appointed  date  and  to  which    Commissioner
General of Rehabilitation is a party or which are in
favour  of 
the  Commissioner-General  of
Rehabilitation on and after the appointed date be
deemed to be contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements,
guarantees,  powers  of  attorney,  grants  of  legal
representation  and  other  instruments  entered  into
by or granted in favour of the Bureau;

24

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

(e) unless  specifically  revoked  or  substituted  in  the
manner provided for in any other law, all approvals
or licences granted to the Commissioner-General of
Rehabilitation by any regulatory body or authority,
Provincial Council or local authority subsisting or
having  effect  on  the  day  immediately  preceding
the appointed date shall on and after the appointed
date be deemed to be approvals or licences granted
to the Bureau;

(f) all Judgments, decrees or orders entered in favour
of  or  against  the  Commissioner-General  of
Rehabilitation  by  any  court  in  any  action  or
proceeding shall on and after the appointed date be
deemed to be judgments, decrees or orders entered
in favour of or against the Bureau; and

(g) all  Protective  Accommodation  and  Rehabilitation
Centres  approved  and  maintained  under  the
Commissioner- General of Rehabilitation shall on
and after the appointed date be deemed to be Centres
for Rehabilitation established under the provisions
of this Act.

Interpretation

36.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires–

“dangerous  drug”  means  any  drug,  substance,
article or preparation specified in Part I of the
Third  Schedule  to  Poisons,  Opium  and
Dangerous Drugs Ordinance (Chapter 218);

“drug dependant person” means a person to whom
the Drug Dependant Persons (Treatment and
Rehabilitation) Act, No. 54 of 2007 applies;

“Minister”  means  the  Minister  assigned  the
subject of the Bureau of Rehabilitation under
Article 44 or 45 of the Constitution;

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

25

“narcotic drug” shall include the drugs specified
in  the  Third  Schedule  of  the  Convention
Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
Psychotropic Substances Act, No. 1 of 2008;

“National  Dangerous  Drugs  Control  Board”
means the National Dangerous Drugs Control
Board established by the National Dangerous
Drugs Control Board Act, No. 11 of 1984;

“psychotropic  substances”  shall  include  the
substances specified in the Fourth Schedule
of  the  Convention  Against  Illicit  Traffic  in
Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances
Act, No. 1 of 2008;

“rehabilitation”  means  the  procedures  and
programmes  for  rehabilitation,  treatment,
aftercare  and  support  services  that  shall  be
prescribed  by  regulations  made  under  this
Act.

37.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

26

Bureau of Rehabilitation Act, No. 2 of 2023

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

