PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————

DEDIGAMA  SRI  MAITHRI  PRAGNARTHA
BOUDDHA  EDUCATIONAL  DAHAM
SABHAWA  (INCORPORATION)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha

Educational Daham Sabhawa

————————

Presented by the Hon. Ashoka Priyantha, M. P. for Puttalam District
 on 18th of February, 2020

(Published in the Gazette on January 28, 2020)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

[Bill No. 323]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 17.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

2-

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)

1

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DEDIGAMA SRI MAITHRI
PRAGNARTHA BOUDDHA EDUCATIONAL DAHAM SABHAWA

WHEREAS  a  Foundation  called  and  known  as  the
“Dedigama  Sri  Maithri  Pragnartha  Bouddha  Educational
Daham Sabhawa” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting
all objects and matters connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by the members:

5

Preamble.

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  foundation  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such  application:

10

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

15

1. This Act may be cited as the Dedigama Sri Maithri
Pragnartha  Bouddha  Educational  Daham  Sabhawa
(Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2020.

Short  Title.

20

25

2. From  and  after  the  date  of  commencement  of  this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Dedigama  Sri  Maithri  Pragnartha  Bouddha  Educational
Daham Sabhawa (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”)
or  shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession  under  the  name  and  style  of  “Dedigama
Sri  Maithri  Pragnartha  Bouddha  Educational  Daham
Sabhawa” (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”), and
by  that  name  may  sue  and  be  sued  and  full  power  and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same
at its pleasure.

Incorporation
of  the
Dedigama  Sri
Maithri
Pragnartha
Bouddha
Educational
Daham
Sabhawa.

2

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

General
objects  of  the
Corporation.

(a) producing  buddhist  practicing  laymen  and  clergy
with  a  view  to  achieving  Nibbana  who  give
prominence to Prathipatthi Pooja;

(b) publishing of religious books for the enhancement
of  religious  and  develop  sheelaya,  asmadhi  and
wisdom of the everyday new comers, engaging in
religious  conversations  and  conducting  dhamma
sermons;

5

10

(c)

taking  steps  to  safeguard  and  practice  the
Kathikavath  of  Dedigama  Sri  Maithri  Pragnartha
Thero  in  order  to  uphold  the  dignity  of  the
Siwwanak attached to the Buddhist institutions;

15

(d)

20

25

taking  steps  to  publish  an  annual  Dhamma  book
that will help enhancing the understanding of the
four  kinds  of  followers  who  are  interested  in
enhancing  their  understanding  in  Dhamma,  and
taking  steps  to  enlighten  newly  ordained  monks
and  lay  trustees  on  the  deeper  teachings  of  the
Dhamma  by  the  adult  Bhikkus  who  posses  an
in-depth  understanding  of  the  doctrine  and
discipline;

(e) providing  infrastructure  facilities  to  give  quality

education to the novice monks;

(f)

taking  action  to  establish  equality  between  Sri
Sambodhi  Aranya  Senasanas,  and  to  employ  the
four requisities vested with Sangha only for the use
and consumption of the Buddhist clergy;

30

(g)

facilitation  of  activities  which  are  of  use  and
incidental  to  the  achievement  of  goals  of

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)

3

Sri Sambodhi Monasteries belonging to Dedigama
Sri  Maithri  Pragnartha  Bouddha  Educational
Daham Sabhawa as well as the Bhikku, Bikshuni,
Upasaka, Upasika;

(h) working  in  compliance  with  the  constitution
that has been approved by the Dedigama Sri Maithri
Pragnartha Bouddha Educational Daham Sabhawa;

(i) producing a group of ordained and lay trustees who
aim  at  achieving  nibbana  through  understanding
of  the  doctrine  and  discipline  and  by  abstaining
from  the  five  sins  and  ten  sinful  acts  giving
prominence  to  principles  having  realized  the
benefits  of  material  offering  (aamisa),  and  by
following Buddhist observances with piety. To this
end,  conducting  sil  and  meditation  programmes
monthly  on  the  four  poya  days,  conducting
meditation  weeks  annually,  and  conducting
dhamma discussions between ordained groups who
have gained deeper understanding and among the
ordained and laymen;

(j) having considered the religious activities done by
respected Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Maha
Nayakka,  the  books  containing  philosophical
thoughts, speeches and videos to be protected, and
create an environment to use such things frequently,
senior  monks  provide  enlightments  through
religious discussions and other moral activities to
the novice monks. through these activities enhance
the religious understanding and moral of reverent
monks;

(k)

facilitating access to educational opportunities for
the  young  clergy  and  lay  people  as  well  as
conducting  progammes  to  enhance  quality
knowledge  such  as  Meditation,  Sil  observation,

5

10

15

20

25

30

4

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)

Dhamma talks and sermons on poya days for the
sivvanak with a view to create a group of people
who  observe  Ajeeva  Ashthamika  precepts  based
on the Dhamma practice;

5

(l)

initiating projects in areas where a group of devotees
who  observes  and  practice  Dhamma  by
contributing  to  set  up  new  senaasanas  in  the
particular areas.

10

15

20

25

30

 4.

(1) The management of the affairs of the corporation
shall,subject to the other provisions of this Act and the rules
in force for the time being of the Corporation be administered
by  a  Committee  of  Management  consisting  of  Chairman,
Secretary, Treasurer and another eleven members elected in
accordance with such rules.

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the
Corporation.

(2)  The First Committee of Management shall consist of
the members of the Committee of Management holding office
on the day immediately preceding thr date of commencement
of this Act.

 5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written  law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform  and  execute  all  such  acts,  matters  and  things
whatsover as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them,  including the powers to open, operate or close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise money with or without security
to receive or collect or accept grants and donations to invest
its  funds  to  the  Corporation  and  to  engage  employ  and
dismiss officers and servants required for the carrying out of
the objects of the Corporation.

General
Powers  of  the
Corporation.

    6.
(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to br received by way of gifts,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited in
one or more banks as the Corporation shall determine.

Fund  of  the
Corporation.

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)

5

(2)  There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Corporation in the excercise, performance and discharge of
its power, duties and function under this Act

5

10

15

20

7. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire  and  hold  any  property,  movable  and  immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, lease,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and
all  such  property  shall  be  held  by  the  Corporation  for  the
purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the
time  being  of  the  Corporation,  with  full  power  to  sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable.

8.

If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Corporation  there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any  property  whatsover,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be  given  or  transferred  to  some  other  institution  or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and  which,  is  or  are  by  its  their  rules  prohibited  from
distributing any income or property among their members.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution  of
Corporation.

9.

(1) The financial year of the corporation shall be the

calendar year.

Audit  and
accounts.

(2)  The  Corporation  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to  be
kept  of  all  moneys  received  and  expended,  by  the
Corporation.

25

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year and the correctness of
income and expenditure account and balance theet certified
by  a  qualified  auditor  appointed  by  the  Committee  of
Management.

30

6

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(a)

(b)

an  individual  who,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
Institute; or

a  firm  of  Accountants,  each  of  the  resident
partners of which, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued
by the Council of such Institute.

10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any  instrument  whatsoever  except  in  the  presence  of  two
members of the Committee of Management, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such    signing  shall  be  independent  of  the  signing  of  any
person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation.

11. Nothing  in  this  Act    contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect  the  rights  of  the  Republic  or  of    anybody  politic,  or
corporate or of any other persons expect such as are mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others.

5

10

15

20

25

12.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency.

Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha
Educational  Daham  Sabhawa  (Incorporation)

7

Department  of  Government  Printing

