PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

————————

HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATION
(INCORPORATION)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Human Rights Organization

————————

Presented by the Hon. Tissa Attanayake, M. P.
 on 03rd of August 2021

(Published in the Gazette on July 20, 2021)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

[Bill No. 61]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATION

WHEREAS an Organization called and known as the “Human
Rights Organization” has heretofore been formed  in No. 10,
Mosque  Lane,  Galle  Road,  Colombo  3  for  the  purpose  of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all matters
connected  with the said Organization  according to the rules
agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Organization  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  expedient  to  grant  the  said
application  :

BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

5

10

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Human  Rights

Short  title

15

Organization  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2021.

Incorporation
of  the  Human
Rights
Organization

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many person as now are members of  the Human
Rights  Organization  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“Organization”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate,
with  perpetual  succession,  under  the  name  and  style  of    the
“Human Rights Organization” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued, with full
power and  authority to have and  use a common seal and to alter
the same at its pleasure.

20

25

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be :—

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

(a) to protect and make known human rights, humanities

and fundamental rights ;

2

Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation)

(b) to  promote  and  encourage  humanities,  sports  and

social services ;

(c) to  facilitate  in  providing  various  relief  facilities  to
those affected by the natural disasters and man made
disasters ;

5

(d) to conduct seminars, dialog and various programmes
of religious, social and cultural important locally and
internationally  ;

(e) to organise leadership programmes ;

10

(f) to lead a committee of patrons comprising of religious

leaders representing all communities ;

15

20

25

(g) to  establish and conduct libraries, to assist in printing
and  publishing  of  books,  magazines,  souvenirs,
journals, cassettes, compact Disks and software and
to provide other services necessary to the attainment
of the objectives of the Corporation.

(h) to  do  acts  in  collaboration  with  institutions  or
organizations local or foreign, having similar objects
to those of the Corporation ; and

(i) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to the attainment of
the above objects.

4. 

(1) The management, control and administration of
the  Corporation  shall,  subject  to  the  provision  of  this  Act
and the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,
vested in a Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the
“Board”)  consisting  of  the  office  bearers  and  such  other
persons as may be provided for in such rules and elected in
accordance therewith.

Management
of  the
Corporation

Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation)

3

(2) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of the Foundation holding office on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.

5. Subject  to  the  provision  of  this  Act  and  any  other
written  law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform  and  execute  all  such  acts,  matters  and  things
whatsoever    as    are    necessary    or    desirable    for    the
furtherance  of    its  objects  or  any  one  of  them,  including
the  power  to  open,  operate  and  close  bank  accounts,  to
borrow  or  raise  moneys  with  or  without  security,    to
receive or collect grants or donations, to invest its funds, to
erect  any  building  or  structure  on  any  land  held  by  the
Corporation,  and  to    engage,  employ  and  dismiss  officers
and servants required for the carrying out of the objects of
the  Corporation.

General
Powers  of  the
Corporation

6.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any general meeting and by the votes of not less than
two thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provision of this Act or any other
written law, for all or any of the following matters:—

Rules  of  the
Corporation

5

10

15

20

(a)

the  classification  of  membership,fees  payable  by
each calss of members and admission, withdrawal,
expulsion  or  resignation  of  members  and  for  the
maintaining of register of members;

25

(b)

the  election  of  office  bearers  of  the  Board  or
vacation of or removal from, office and the powers,
duties and functions of the office bearers;

(c)

(d)

the appointment, powers, duties and functions and
conditions  of  the  various  officers,  agents  and
servants of the Corporation;

the  procedure  to  be  followed  at  the  summoning
and  holding  of  meetings  of  the  Board,  the
Corporation  and  any  sub-committee  therof,
including the quorum therefore and the conduct of
business thereat;

30

35

4

Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation)

(e)

(f)

5

the qualifications and disqualifications for members
of the Board and the Corporation; and

the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation for the accomplishment of the
objects of the Corporation.

(2) The rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all time be
subject to rules of the Corporation made under this section.

10

(4)  The  rules  of  the  organization  in  force  on  the  day
preceding to date of commencement of this Act, shall in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law, be deemed to be rules of the
Corporation made under this section.

7.  The  Executive  Chairman  and  the  Chairman,
Co-ordinator or appointed Member shall have the authority
in the Government and Non Government institute to—

(a)

(b)

(c)

engage in negotiation with the concerned parties in
order to solve their dispute whatsoever, with good
intention of solving such disputes in the Government
organisations for the benefit of the people;

engage  in  dialog  with  concern  authorities  in  any
Police Station within any administrative District is
Sri Lanka, for the welfare of the people, in order to
solve the dispute where an injustice has taken place;
and

act  with  the  corporation  of  Honourable  Members
and  Minister  of  Parliament  of  the  Democratic
Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  the  Provincial
Council Members, the Pradeshiya Sabha Members

15

20

25

30

Rights  to
engage  in
dialog  with
concern
parties  with  a
view  to  solve
the  dispute

Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation)

5

and  the  Gevernment  and  Non  Government
Organization upon any complain or request made
any  members  in  the  society  for  their  benefit  in  a
manner stated in paragraph (a) above.

5

10

15

20

25

30

8. The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All moneys
received  by  way  of  gift,  bequest,  donation,  transfer,
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the Board
of Management shall determine.

Fund  of  the
Corporation

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all  such  sums  of  money  as  may  be  required  to  defray  any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.

9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
take  and  hold  any  property  movable  or  immovable  which
may  become  vested  in  it  by  virtue  of  any  purchase  grant,
gift,  testamentary  disposition  or  otherwise,  and  all  such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of  this  Act,  and  subject  to  the  rules  in  force  for  the  time
being of the Corporation with full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

10. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
discharging  the  debts  and  liabilities  of  the  Corporation  or
for  any  other  purpose,  be  liable  to  make  any  contribution
exceeding  the  amount  of    annual  subscription  payable  by
him to the Corporation.

Limitation  of
liability  of
members

11.

If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Corporation  there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

6

Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation)

is  or  are  by  the  rules  thereof  prohibited  from  distributing
any income or property among its or their members. Such
institution or institutions shall be determined by the Board
at or immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.

5

12.

(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
Audit  of  the
Corporation

(2)  The  Corporation  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to  be
kept  of  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities  and
all other transactions of the Corporation.

10

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a

qualified auditor as  may be determined by the Board.

In this section, “Qualified Auditor” means —

(a)

(b)

an  individual  who  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant  issued  by    the  Council  of  such
institute;  or

a  firm  of  Accountants  each  of  the  resident
partners  of  which,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or  of  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
institute.

13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of person as may be duly authorized by the Board
who  shall  sign  their  names  on  the  instrument  in  token  of
their presence and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation

15

20

25

30

Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation)

7

14. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other peron, except such as are mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

5

15.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

8

Human Rights Organization  (Incorporation)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

