THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of November 04, 2022

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 04.11.2022)

RECOVERY OF POSSESSION OF PREMISES
GIVEN ON LEASE

A

BILL

to provide for the procedure relating to the recovery of possession of premises
given on lease under a lease agreement and to regulate the recovery of
arrears  of  lease  rentals,  service  charges  and  liquidated  damages  and  to
 provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Justice, Prison Affairs and
Constitutional  Reforms

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 50.00

Postage : Rs. 35.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

1

L.D.-O. 66/2021

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PROCEDURE RELATING TO THE RECOVERY OF
POSSESSION OF PREMISES GIVEN ON LEASE UNDER A LEASE AGREEMENT;
TO REGULATE THE RECOVERY OF ARREARS OF LEASE RENTALS, SERVICE
CHARGES AND LIQUIDATED DAMAGES; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Recovery of Possession

Short  title

of Premises Given on Lease Act, No.     of 2022.

PART I

INSTITUTION OF ACTION

2. (1) Where any premises has been given on lease by a
lessor,  such  lessor  may,  subject  to  the  provisions  of
subsection (2), institute action for the recovery of possession
of such premises in the Court having jurisdiction over the
local limits within which-

Action  by  the
lessor  to
recover
possession  of
a  premises
given  on
lease

(a)

the premises given on lease is situated;

5

10

(b)

the lessee resides;

(c)

the cause of action arises; or

15

(d)

the  lease  agreement  sought  to  be  enforced  was
made.

(2)  An action shall not be instituted by a lessor under the
provisions  of  this  Act  for  the  recovery  of  possession  of  a
premises  given  on  lease  or  for  any  relief  specified  in
subsection (2) of section 5 unless possession of such premises
has been given to the lessee by a lease agreement.

20

2

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

3. An  action  under  this  Act  may  be  instituted  by  the
lessor  to  recover  the  possession  of  the  premises  given  on
lease where the lessee refuses or fails or neglects to leave the
premises -

Grounds  for
institution  of
action

5

(a)

at the expiry of the period of the lease agreement; or

(b) upon the termination of the lease agreement prior
to the expiry of the period of the lease agreement
due to a breach by the lessee of any of the terms,
conditions, covenants, obligations or duties set out
in the said agreement, where the lessor has issued a
notice of termination of the lease agreement.

4. (1) The lessor (hereinafter referred to as the “plaintiff”)
shall institute an action by presenting a plaint in the form
specified  in  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  and  shall  file  with
such  plaint-

Documents
to  be  filed

(a)

(b)

(c)

 an affidavit to the effect that the possession of the
premises given on lease which is the subject matter
of  the  action  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“premises”) is lawfully due to the plaintiff from the
lessee (hereinafter referred to as the “defendant”);

a  draft  decree  nisi  together  with  the  applicable
stamps as required by law, for the decree nisi and
service thereof; and

such number of copies of the plaint, affidavit and
lease agreement, together with any document relied
on  by  the  lessor,  as  is  equal  to  the  number  of
defendants in the action, if there are more than one
defendant.

(2)  (a)  The  affidavit  to  be  filed  by  the  plaintiff  under
subsection (1) shall be made by the plaintiff himself or by a
person  duly  authorized  by  law  to  make  such  affidavit  on
behalf of the plaintiff.

10

15

20

25

30

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

3

(b)  If the action is instituted by the plaintiff on the ground
referred to in paragraph (b) of section 3, the plaintiff shall
plead  such  facts  and  prima  facie  establish  the  breach
committed by the defendant and shall also adduce proof of
the early termination.

5

(3) In any action instituted under subsection (1), the Court
shall permit the plaintiff to support the same within seven
days from the institution of the action for issuance of a decree
nisi.

10

5. (1)  When  the  action  is  supported  in  Court  for  the
issuance of a decree nisi in terms of section 4, if it appears to
the Court that –

Entering  a
decree  nisi
by  the  Court

(a)

the lease agreement produced –

15

20

25

(i)

is  properly  executed  and  duly  stamped  as
required by law; and

(ii)

is  not  open  to  suspicion  by  reason  of  any
alteration, erasure or interpolation in the lease
agreement  unless  such  alteration,  erasure  or
interpolation has been made before the signing
by  the  executing  parties  as  stated  in  the
attestation  by  notary  public,  as  the  case  may
be; and

(b)

the contents of the affidavit filed is satisfactory to
prove,  prima  facie,  the  case  on  the  part  of  the
plaintiff,

the Court shall enter a decree nisi in the form set out in the
First  Schedule  to  recover  the  possession  of  the  premises
described  in  the  plaint,  together  with  any  of  the  reliefs
specified in subsection (2).

30

(2)  The  relief  referred  to  in  subsection  (1)  shall  be  as

follows:-

4

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

(a)

the arears of lease rentals;

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

service charges, if any, until the plaintiff is restored
to vacant possession of the premises;

liquidated damages, if any, from the expiry of the
lease agreement or effective date of the termination
of the lease agreement until the date of restoration
of  the  plaintiff  to  the  vacant  possession  of  the
premises;

interest on arrears of lease rentals, service charges
and  liquidated  damages  at  the  rate  of  legal
interest; or

such  costs  as  the  Court  may  allow  together  with
such other reliefs prayed for by the plaintiff as the
Court may seem meet.

6. (1)  The  Court,  when  determining  the  liquidated
damages to be awarded under subsection (2) of section 5,
shall not award any sum in excess of twice the lease rental
agreed to in the lease agreement, though any sum in excess
of such liquidated damages has been agreed to by the parties
in the lease agreement.

Liquidated
damages

(2)Where the parties have not agreed upon the liquidated
damages payable in the lease agreement for the grounds of
action  specified  in  section  3,  the  liquidated  damages  that
may be awarded shall be the sum of the lease rental agreed to
by the parties in the lease agreement.

7. A  service  charge  shall  not  be  ordered  unless  the
defendant has agreed to pay such service charge in the lease
agreement, either directly to the plaintiff or to another person
on behalf of the plaintiff.

Payment  of
service
charge

5

10

15

20

25

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

5

PART II

SERVICE OF DECREE NISI

8. (1) A decree nisi shall be served on the defendant to
recover possession of the premises as asserted by the plaintiff
while giving the defendant a reasonable opportunity to make
an application to seek leave to appear and show cause, in
respect of his position.

Service  of
decree  nisi
ordinarily  to
be  by
registered
post

(2)  The  decree  nisi  shall  be  ordinarily  served  on  the
defendant by registered post at the premises or at the address
given by the defendant in the lease agreement for service of
notices, if any.

(3) The Registrar of the Court shall, within a period not
later than three days from the date of entering of the decree
nisi under section 5, initiate action to serve the decree nisi
on the defendant.

9. (1) The Court may, on application being made in that
behalf  immediately  after  the  decree  nisi  is  entered  under
section  5,  and  at  its  discretion,  order  that  in  addition  to
serving  the  decree  nisi  by  registered  post,  the  decree  nisi
may also be served by tendering or delivering the same on
the defendant personally through a process officer.

Service  of
decree  nisi
by  a  process
officer

(2)  In the case where such decree nisi is ordered to be
served through a process officer under subsection (1), the
Registrar of the Court shall authorize the process officer to
serve the decree nisi on the defendant within ten days from
the receipt by such process officer of the decree nisi along
with the precept in the form specified in the Second Schedule.

 (3) The decree nisi may be served in any part of Sri Lanka.
Where a decree nisi ordered to be served personally through
a process officer is required to be served outside the local
limits of the jurisdiction of the Court issuing the same, the
decree nisi  shall  be  forwarded  by  such  Court  to  the  court

5

10

15

20

25

30

6

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

within  whose  jurisdiction  the  defendant  is  believed  to  be
residing  forthwith,  and  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  last-
mentioned court to cause the decree nisi to be duly served
on the defendant in accordance with the provisions of this
Act.

(4) Where a decree nisi is required to be served outside
the local limits of the jurisdiction of the Court issuing the
same, the Court may, at its discretion or on application made
by the plaintiff, for reasons to be recorded and upon such
terms as to costs, authorize the process officer of that Court
to  serve  the  decree  nisi  outside  the  local  limits  of  the
jurisdiction of that Court and to function as a special process
server.

(5) It shall be the duty of the process officer to endeavour
to obtain the signature or the thumb impression or both of
the  defendant  or  any  other  person  on  his  behalf,  on  the
original  precept  in  acknowledgment  of  the  service  of  the
decree nisi. The process officer shall return the precept to the
Court together with the report informing the Court the manner
of service of the decree nisi as set out in the form specified in
the Second Schedule referred to in subsection (2).

(6) If  the  service  cannot  be  effected  as  referred  to  in
subsection (1) by the exercise of due diligence, the process
officer  is  authorized  to  affix  the  decree  nisi  in  some
conspicuous  part  of  the  premises  without  any  further
direction of the Court and report such service to the Court.
The decree nisi served in the aforesaid manner shall be deemed
to have been duly served on the defendant personally.

10. (1) Where the defendant is a public officer, the Court
may, at its discretion, in addition to sending the decree nisi
to the defendant by registered post, also forward a copy of
the decree nisi in duplicate, by registered post to the Head of
Office in which the defendant is employed.

Service  of
decree  nisi
on  a  public
officer

5

10

15

20

25

30

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

7

(2) In this section, “Head of Office”—

(a) when used with reference to a member of any Unit
of the Sri Lanka Army, Sri Lanka Navy or Sri Lanka
Air Force, means the Commanding Officer of that
Unit;

(b) when used with reference to a person employed in a
Provincial  Council,  means  the  Secretary  of  that
Provincial  Council;

(c) when used with reference to a person employed in
the Provincial Public Service, means the Head of
the Department in which such person is employed;

(d) when used with reference to a person employed in a
local authority, if the local authority is a Municipal
Council,  means  the  Municipal  Commissioner  of
such Municipal Council and if the local authority
is an Urban Council or a Pradeshiya Sabha, means
the Chairman or Secretary of such Council or Sabha;
and

(e) when used with reference to any other public officer,
means  the  Head  of  the  Department  of  the
Government in which such person is employed.

11. (1) The date to be specified in the decree nisi as the
date  on  which  the  defendant  is  to  make  an  application
seeking leave to appear and show cause, if any, against the
decree nisi shall be as early a date as can conveniently be
specified,  regard  being  had  to  the  distance  from  the
defendant’s residence to the Court. In any such instance, the
said date to be specified shall not be later than six weeks
from the date of the decree nisi.

Date  to  be
specified  in
the  decree
nisi  for  the
defendant  to
apply  to  the
Court  for
leave  to
appear

5

10

15

20

25

8

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

(2)   The Court shall not grant the defendant any further
time to make an application to enable the defendant to seek
leave to appear and show cause against such decree nisi.

PART III

5

DEFENDANT TO MAKE AN APPLICATION TO APPEAR AND SHOW CAUSE

12. (1)  In  an  action  instituted  under  this  Act,  the
defendant shall not appear and show cause against the decree
nisi unless he first obtains leave to appear and show cause
from the Court which issued the decree nisi.

Defendant  to
appear  and
show  cause
only  upon
leave  and
security

10

15

20

25

(2)  The defendant shall, for the purpose of subsection
(1),  file  an  application  by  way  of  a  petition  for  leave  to
appear and show cause against the decree nisi supported by
an  affidavit  and  such  petition  and  affidavit  shall  deal
specifically  with  the  plaintiff’s  case  and  state  clearly  and
concisely what the defence to the plaintiff’s case is and what
facts are relied upon to support it.

(3) Upon the filing of the petition and affidavit referred
to in subsection (2), if the Court is satisfied that the contents
of  the  petition  and  affidavit  disclose  a  defence  which  is
prima facie sustainable against the action of the plaintiff for
recovery of possession of the premises, the Court may grant
the  defendant  leave  to  appear  and  show  cause  against  the
decree nisi, subject to security.

(4)  If the Court is not satisfied that the contents of the
petition  and  affidavit  disclose  a  defence  which  is  prima
facie  sustainable,  the  Court  shall  refuse  the  application
referred  to  in  subsection  (2)  and  make  the  decree  nisi,
absolute.

30

13. Where  the  Court  grants  leave  to  appear  and  show
cause under section 12, the Court shall order the defendant
to furnish security which is not less than–

Security  to
be  furnished
by  the
defendant

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

9

(a) the sum due to the plaintiff as the aggregate of the
arrears of lease rentals, prayed for and specified in
the decree nisi;

(b) the  aggregate  sum  due  to  the  plaintiff  as  service
charges up to the date of the order granting leave to
appear and show cause prayed for and specified in
the decree nisi, if such claim has been made; and

(c) the aggregate sum due to the plaintiff as liquidated
damages prayed for and specified in the decree nisi,
from the expiry, or effective date of termination of
the  lease  agreement  upto  the  date  of  the  order
granting leave to appear and show cause and for a
further period of one year from the date of granting
such leave.

5

10

15

 14. (1) The security ordered by the Court under section
13 shall be deposited in cash in the Court within two weeks
from the date of the order.

20

25

(2)  The  Registrar  of  the  Court  shall  cause  to  issue  a
deposit note to deposit the same to an interest accruing bank
account maintained by the Court and the moneys shall be
kept in the account until a further order is made by the Court.

(3) The Court shall not grant any period of extension to
deposit  the  security  ordered  by  the  Court,  unless  the
defendant, by an application made within the period of two
weeks  referred  to  in  subsection  (1),  establishes  sufficient
reasons, to the satisfaction of the Court, for his inability to
deposit the security. In such event, the Court may grant a
further period which shall not exceed two weeks from the
expiry of the previous time period granted by the Court.

30

15. Where the defendant-

(a) fails to make an application for leave to appear
and  show  cause  on  the  date  specified  in  the
decree nisi under subsection (1) of section 11;

Security
ordered  to  be
deposited
within  two
weeks

Making  the
decree  nisi
absolute,  by
the  Court

10

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

(b) having made an application for leave to appear
and show cause, has failed to disclose a defence
which  is  prima  facie  sustainable  against  the
action  of  the  plaintiff  for  recovery  of
possession of the premises; or

(c) fails  to  furnish  the  security  ordered  under
section  13  within  the  time  period  specified
under section 14,

the Court shall make the decree nisi absolute, without any
further notice to the defendant. In such instance, the Judge
shall endorse the words “Decree nisi made absolute” or words
to  the  like  effect,  upon  the  decree  nisi  and  shall  date  and
sign such endorsement:

Provided that a decree nisi, if it consists of separable
parts, may be discharged in part and made absolute in part
and  anything  herein  enacted  shall  not  prevent  any  order
being made by the Court on the consent of the plaintiff and
the defendant consequent to the decree nisi.

16. (1) An appeal by a defendant shall not lie against the
decree  nisi  which  has  been  made  absolute  due  to  the
defendant’s  failure  to  make  an  application  in  terms  of
paragraph  (a)  of  section  15,  but  it  shall  be  competent  for
Court, within a period not later than one year after the decree
absolute  was  entered,  to  entertain  an  application  by  the
defendant by way of petition and affidavit filed against such
decree absolute, to have it set aside on the ground that-

Order
making  a
decree  nisi
absolute  on
default  not
appealable,
but  may  be
set  aside

5

10

15

20

25

(a)

the  defendant  was  prevented  from  appearing  in
Court after the decree nisi was served on him by
reason of accident or misfortune or an act of God; or

30

(b)

such decree nisi was not served on the defendant.

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

11

(2)  In addition to the grounds referred to in subsection
(1), the defendant shall also plead in the petition and affidavit,
the grounds for leave to appear and show cause against the
decree  absolute.    The  petition  and  affidavit  shall  deal
specifically  with  the  plaintiff’s  case  and  state  clearly  and
concisely what the defence to the plaintiff’s case is and what
facts are relied upon to support it.

5

 (3) On filing the petition and affidavit by the defendant
in terms of subsections (1) and (2), if the Court, after giving
the parties an opportunity of being heard, on satisfied that-

10

15

20

(a)

the failure on the part of the defendant to make an
application under paragraph (a) of section 15 was
due to any ground specified in subsection (1); and

(b)

the  defendant  has  disclosed  a  defence  which  is
prima facie sustainable,

the  Court  may  set  aside  the  decree  absolute  subject  to
security that shall be furnished under section 13 and shall
proceed  to  determine  the  matter  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of this Act, if such security is deposited within
the period specified under section 14.

(4) If the defendant fails to furnish the security referred
to in subsection (3) within the time period specified for such
purpose,  the  Court  shall  then  make  an  order  making  the
decree nisi absolute.

25

(5) Where  the  defendant  fails  to  satisfy  the  Court  as
provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (3), the
Court  shall  dismiss  the  application  of  the  defendant,  with
costs.

Procedure
where  leave
to  appear  and
show  cause  is
granted

12

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

PART IV

PROCEDURE AFTER GRANTING LEAVE TO APPEAR AND SHOW CAUSE

17. (1) Where the Court-

5

10

(a) grants leave to appear and show cause against
a  decree  nisi  to  the  defendant  under
subsection (3)  of  section  12  and  the  security
ordered  is  deposited  within  the  specified
period; or

(b) setting aside the decree absolute, grants leave
to  appear  and  show  cause  to  the  defendant
under  subsection  (3)  of  section  16  and  the
security  ordered  to  be  furnished  is  deposited
within the specified period,

15

the  provisions  of  sections  384,  385,  386  and  387  of  the
Civil  Procedure  Code  shall,  mutatis  mutandis,  apply  in
respect of the proceedings before the Court.

(2) For the purpose of section 384 of the Civil Procedure
Code,  the  application  filed  by  the  defendant  for  leave  to
appear and show cause shall be deemed to be the objection
of the defendant and the affidavit filed by the defendant in
support  of  such  application  shall  be  deemed  to  be  the
affidavit of the defendant.

20

(3) The Court shall pronounce the final order in the matter
of the plaint, either discharging the decree nisi or making
the  decree  nisi  absolute  within  one  year  from  the  date  of
granting leave to appear and show cause.

25

(4) The final order so pronounced shall be endorsed on
the decree nisi either with the words “Decree nisi discharged”
or “Decree nisi made absolute” or words to the like effect
and such endorsement shall be dated and signed by the Judge
of the Court:

30

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

13

Provided that a decree nisi, if it consists of separable
parts, may be discharged in part and made absolute in part,
and  anything  herein  enacted  shall  not  prevent  any  order
being made by consent of the plaintiff and the defendant on
the footing of the decree nisi.

18. In any proceedings under this Act, the Court may
order  that  the  originals  of  the  lease  agreement  or  other
document copies of which were filed with the plaint or on
which  the  action  is  founded,  be  made  available  for
examination by the Court when the action is supported in
Court. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Civil
Procedure  Code,  such  agreement  or  document  shall  be
returned to the plaintiff after such examination.

Original
documents
filed  to  be
made
available
for
examination

19. (1) Where, after entering a decree nisi -

Award  of
compensation

(a)

(b)

it  appears  to  the  Court  that  such  decree  nisi
was  obtained  by  wilful  suppression  or  non-
disclosure of any material facts; and

the decree nisi was discharged and the action
was dismissed on the grounds of such wilful
suppression or non-disclosure of material facts,

the Court may in the same action, on the application filed
by the defendant against whom the decree nisi was entered,
award  compensation  and  costs  for  the  expenses  or  injury
caused to such defendant, in such sum as the Court deems
reasonable, to be paid by the plaintiff.

(2) An award made under subsection (1) shall operate as
a  bar  to  any  action  for  compensation  in  any  subsequent
proceeding under this Act.

(3) Notwithstanding  the  dismissal  of  any  action
instituted under this Act, where an application is made for
compensation  under  subsection  (1)  in  respect  of  a  decree
nisi entered in such action, the action so dismissed shall be
deemed  to  continue  until  the  determination  of  such
application.

5

10

15

20

25

30

14

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

20. (1) Where the defendant appears in Court in response
to the decree nisi and agrees to surrender the possession of
the premises or to settle the arrears of lease rentals, service
charges and liquidated damages, as the case may be, on such
terms and conditions that may be agreed upon by the parties,
the decree nisi shall be made absolute subject to such terms
and  conditions  as  agreed  upon  by  the  parties  before  the
Court.

Surrender  of
possession  of
the  premises
by  the
defendant,
&c

(2)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in the succeeding provisions of this Act, the decree absolute
referred  to  in  subsection  (1)  shall  operate  as  a  stay  of
execution of proceedings as agreed to by the parties, provided
that the defendant shall not act in breach of any of the terms
and  conditions  of  settlement,  in  which  event  the  plaintiff
shall be entitled to execute such decree absolute.

21. The discharge of a decree nisi or dismissal of an action
under the provisions of this Act shall not operate as a bar for
any other action instituted for the recovery of possession of
the premises by the lessor or any other person entitled to the
possession  of  such  premises,  on  any  appropriate  cause  of
action under an applicable procedure in the Civil Procedure
Code or any other law.

Discharge  of
a  decree  nisi
or  dismissal
of  an  action
not  to  bar
any
subsequent
action

PART V

PROCEDURE AFTER MAKING THE DECREE NISI ABSOLUTE

5

10

15

20

25

30

22. (1) Subject to an order of the Court, where a decree
nisi entered in an action instituted under this Act is made
absolute, it shall be deemed to be a writ of execution duly
issued to the Fiscal in terms of subsection (3) of section 225
and section 323 of the Civil Procedure Code, and the same
shall be executed fourteen days after the date of order making
the  decree  absolute,  without  any  further  notice  to  the
defendant.

Decree
absolute
deemed  to  be
a  writ  of
execution

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

15

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, the execution of the decree nisi made absolute
shall not be stayed.

5

(3)  The  writ  of  execution  referred  to  in  subsection  (1)
shall be valid for a period of not more than one year from the
date on which the decree nisi was made absolute, and it shall
be the duty of the Fiscal to execute the same in the manner
specified in the Civil Procedure Code for the execution of
writs.

10

15

(4)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written  law,  preferring  an  appeal  or  an  application  for
revision or an application for restitutio in integrum by the
defendant, in respect of a decree nisi made absolute, shall
not be a ground to stay the proceedings unless the Appeal
Court makes an order expressly staying such proceedings.

20

(5)  Before  the  Appeal  Court  makes  an  order  expressly
staying  the  execution  in  pursuance  of  an  appeal  or  an
application  made  by  the  defendant,  it  shall  call  upon  the
defendant to furnish a security in cash for the satisfaction of
the entire monetary claim of the plaintiff under section 13
inclusive of liquidated damages or such part thereof as the
Appeal  Court  may  deem  fit,  having  considered  all  the
circumstances of the case, in the event the main appeal or
application  is  dismissed:

25

Provided that no such stay order shall be issued unless
sufficient notice has is given to the plaintiff or his registered
attorney.

23. (1) If the Fiscal is resisted or obstructed by any person
while executing a writ referred to in section 22, the Fiscal
shall, within fourteen days of the resistance or obstruction,
report  such  resistance  or  obstruction  to  the  Court  and  the
Court  shall  thereupon  issue  a  notice  against  the  person
resisting or obstructing requiring him to show cause as to
why  he  should  not  be  dealt  with  for  contempt  of  Court
occasioned by such resistance or obstruction.

30

35

Resistance
deemed  to  be
contempt

16

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

(2) (a) Any person resisting or obstructing the Fiscal while
executing a writ under this Act commits contempt of Court,
unless-

(i)

(ii)

such  person,  not  being  the  judgment  debtor,
proves  to  the  satisfaction  of  Court  that  the
resistance or obstruction has been occasioned by
such  person  claiming  in  good  faith  to  be  in
possession of the whole of such premises on his
own account or on account of some person other
than the judgment debtor, by virtue of any right
or interest; or

the claim notified is found by the Court to have
been  made  by  a  person  claiming  to  be  in
possession of the whole of such premises on his
own account or on account of some person other
than the judgment debtor, by virtue of any right
or interest.

(b) Any  person  who  commits  contempt  of  court  under
paragraph (a) shall be liable to a fine not exceeding rupees
five hundred thousand or to  imprisonment  for a term not
exceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(3) The provisions of section 303 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure  Act,  No.  15  of  1979  shall  not  be  applicable  in
respect of an offender on whom a sentence of imprisonment
is imposed under subsection (2).

(4)  In addition to imposing punishment on the convicted
person under subsection (2), the Court shall order the Fiscal
to  place  the  plaintiff  judgment  creditor  in  vacant  and
peaceful possession of the relevant premises.

24.  (1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  subsection  (2),  a
defendant  or  his  legal  representative  shall  not  place  in
possession  a  third  party  in  the  premises  in  any  manner
whatsoever after the decree nisi entered in the action is served
on such defendant or his legal representative, and such act
shall amount to contempt of Court:

Provided however, if the action is dismissed or the decree
nisi  is  discharged,  this  prohibition  shall  no  longer  be
applicable.

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

Change  of
possession  or
status  quo  of
the  premises
by  the
defendant
after
institution  of
action

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

17

5

10

(2)  It  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  defendant  or  his  legal
representative to maintain the status quo of the premises in
the same condition as it was at the time of service of decree
nisi and the defendant or his legal representative shall not
change the status quo of the premises without an order of
the Court.

(3)  Where  the  possession  of  any  premises  has  been
delivered  to  a  third  party  either  completely  or  partly  in
contravention  of  the  provisions  of  subsection  (1),  such
alienation shall be null and void and of no force or effect in
law. Such third party and all those holding possession of the
premises under him, shall be liable for ejectment from the
premises, as in a writ of execution as a party bound by the
decree, although such third party is not a party to the decree.

15

20

(4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, any person who is guilty of contempt of Court
under subsection (1) shall be liable to a fine not exceeding
rupees five hundred thousand or to an imprisonment for a
term  not  exceeding  two  years  or  to  both  such  fine  and
imprisonment.

(5) The provisions of section 303 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, shall not be applicable in
respect of an offender on whom a sentence of imprisonment
is imposed under subsection (4).

25

30

PART VI

APPEALS

25. (1) Any person aggrieved by-

(a)

(b)

an  order  making  a  decree  nisi  absolute  by
refusing an application made by the defendant
on the grounds specified in paragraphs (b) and
(c) of  section 15;

an  order  under  subsection  (4)  of  section  16,
making a decree nisi absolute on failure by the
defendant to furnish security;

Preferring
appeals
against  an
order  of  the
Court

18

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

(c)

(d)

5

an  order  under  subsection  (5)  of  section  16
dismissing  an  application  made  by  the  defendant
to have the decree absolute set aside; or

a final order made under subsection (3) of section
17 either discharging the decree nisi or making the
decree nisi absolute,

may prefer an appeal in terms of the provisions of section
754 of the Civil Procedure Code.

(2)  Notwithstanding the preferring of any such appeal,

10

the execution of writ of execution shall not be stayed.

(3) Where the Appeal Court allows an appeal setting aside
a  decree  absolute  and  where  the  writ  has  already  been
executed  under  section  22  of  this  Act,  the  Appeal  Court
shall  enter  a  decree  in  favour  of  the  appellant  awarding
damages in such sum as it may consider appropriate for the
loss of premises for his occupation or business during the
validity period of the lease and may, at its discretion, order
restoration of the appellant to the vacant possession of the
premises:

Provided  however,  the  Appeal  Court  shall  not  order
restoration of the appellant if the lease period for which the
premises  has  been  given  to  the  appellant  under  the  lease
agreement has already expired as at the date of the judgment
of the Appeal Court.

(4)  Where  the  Appeal  Court  makes  an  order  to  enter  a
decree  nisi  absolute,  such  decree  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a
writ  of  execution  duly  issued  to  the  Fiscal  in  terms  of
subsection (3) of section 225 and section 323 of the Civil
Procedure  Code,  but  the  execution  of  the  same  shall  be
stayed until the expiration of the period allowed by law to
make an appropriate application to the Supreme Court.

15

20

25

30

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

19

    (5) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other written law, the writ shall be executed after the period
allowed by law for making an application to the Supreme
Court,  unless  the  Supreme  Court  makes  an  express  order
staying  the  execution.

5

PART VII

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

10

26.    In any matter or question of procedure not provided
for in this Act, the procedure laid down in the Civil Procedure
Code in respect of a like matter or question shall be followed
by the Court if such procedure is not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act.

Casus
omissus

27. Where any form to be used for the purposes of this Act
has  not  been  specified  in  this  Act,  such  form  as  may  be
required, may be prescribed by the Minister for such purpose.

15

Forms

Recovery  of
unsettled
utility  bills  or
service
charges  due
as  at  the  time
of  execution
of  the  decree

20

25

30

28. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other written law, in an action instituted under this Act, if
the defendant has defaulted the settlement of any payment
due and payable by him under the lease agreement by way
of service charge or part thereof or any utility bills or part
thereof, from the date of the plaint until the date of writ of
execution,    the  plaintiff  shall    make  an  application  in  the
same action within a period of three months from the date of
execution of writ and delivery of vacant possession of the
premises to the plaintiff, by petition and affidavit supported
by relevant documentary evidence to establish  such non-
settlement, for the recovery of such dues and interest and
penalty imposed on such dues.

(2) The Court, on being satisfied of the contents contained
in  the  petition,  affidavit  and  the  documentary  evidence
referred to in subsection (1), may make an order, directing
the  defendant  to  appear  and  show  cause  why  the  Court
should not make an order to pay such sum specified in the
order, to the plaintiff.

20

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

5

10

(3)  The  Court  may,  after  due  inquiry,  make  an  order
awarding  the  plaintiff  any  such  arrears  of  utility  bills  and
service  charges  upto  the  date  of  delivery  of  the  vacant
possession  of  the  premises  to  such  plaintiff  together  with
any interest or penalty on such bills or charges.

(4) The provisions relating to decrees for money set out
in  the  Civil  Procedure  Code  shall mutatis  mutandis  apply
for the recovery of the moneys awarded in such order.

(5) Any defendant who intends to appeal against an order
made under subsection (3) shall deposit in the Court the full
sum  ordered  for  payment  as  a  security,  as  a  condition
precedent to such appeal and the Court is entitled to reject
any such appeal without a deposit of the full sum ordered as
security.

15

29. (1) There shall be maintained a special register in the
form  specified  in  the  Third  Schedule  in  every  Court  for
actions instituted under this Act and such actions shall be
assigned a number distinctive from other actions.

A  special
register  and
special
inquiry  roll
to  be
maintained

20

25

(2) In every Court in which cases may be instituted under
this Act, a special inquiry roll shall be kept of such cases in
which leave to appear and show cause against a decree nisi
has been granted. It shall be competent for the Judge of such
Court to order such cases to be set down for hearing on such
days as may facilitate their early disposal, any rule or practice
of  such  Court  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding,  and  after
giving the parties reasonable notice of the date of inquiry.

PART VIII

GENERAL PROVISIONS

30

30.  The provisions of any other written law relating to
lease agreements shall, in so far as they are not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act, apply to lease agreements
governed by this Act.

Applicability
of  other  laws

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

21

31. (1) The provisions of this Act shall be applicable to
any  lease  agreement,  notwithstanding  that  such  lease
agreement has been entered into and executed prior to the
date of commencement of this Act.

(2)  Where such lease agreement has expired or terminated
prior to the date of commencement of this Act, the lessor
shall be entitled to commence proceedings from the date of
commencement of this Act for the recovery of the possession
of the premises and the arrears of lease rentals, service charges
and liquidated damages under this Act, unless the lessor has
not entered into a fresh lease agreement with the lessee.

This  Act  to  be
applicable  for
lease
agreements
executed  prior
to  the
commencement
of  this  Act

32. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, where a lessor has instituted an action for the
recovery of the possession of a premises and such action is
pending  on  the  date  of  commencement  of  this  Act,  such
lessor shall be entitled to institute action under this Act for
the recovery of the possession of such premises and other
reliefs after the commencement of this Act.

Actions
pending  on
the  date  of
commencement
of  this  Act

33. The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to and
not in derogation of any other remedy that may be available
in law to a lessor of a premises given on lease under a lease
agreement, for the recovery of possession of such premises
or for the recovery of any money, damages, utility bills or
other payments from the lessee under such lease agreement.

Saving  other
remedies

34. (1) Nothing in the Rent Act, No. 7 of 1972 shall apply
to, or in relation to, a lease agreement executed on or after
the date of commencement of this Act.

Non-
applicability
of  the  Rent
Act

5

10

15

20

25

(2)   Nothing contained in section 29 of the Rent Act, No.
7 of 1972 shall preclude any person from instituting an action
under this Act.

30

35. Where any appointment is made in substitution of a
party as his legal representative under Chapter XXV of the
Civil  Procedure  Code,  the  person  so  appointed  shall  be
treated as a party to the action, and every order, decree nisi

Effect  of
legal
representative
being  made  a
party

22

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

or  decree  absolute  made  or  anything  done  in  the  action
instituted  under  this  Act,  including  the  recovery  of
possession  of  the  premises  given  on  lease  to  a  deceased
lessee  and  any  recovery  of  damages  shall  be  enforceable
against such substituted party.

36. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a

body of persons, then-

Offences  by
a  body  of
persons

(a)

(b)

(c)

if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
director,  manager  or  secretary  of  that  body
corporate;

if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of
that firm, and

if that body of persons is an unincorporated body,
every  individual  who  is  a  member  of  such
unincorporated  body,

shall be deemed to have committed that offence:

Provided that any director, manager or secretary of such
body corporate or any partner of such firm or any individual
in such unincorporated body shall not be deemed to have
committed such offence, if he proves that such offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all
due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.

37. (1) The Minister may, for the purpose of giving effect
to the principles of this Act, make regulations in respect of
any matter which is required by this Act to be prescribed or
in respect of which regulations are required or authorized to
be made under this Act.

Regulations

(2)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  shall  be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication, or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

23

(3) (a) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, within
three months after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval.

5

(b)  Any  regulation  which  is  not  so  approved  shall  be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval,
but without prejudice to anything duly done thereunder.

(4)    Notification  of  the  date  on  which  a  regulation  is
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

38. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

Interpretation

10

15

20

25

30

“Appeal  Court”  means  any  court  exercising  civil
appellate, revisionary or restitutio in integrum
jurisdiction  over  orders  or  judgments  of  the
District Court;

“Civil Procedure Code” means the Civil Procedure

Code (Chapter 101);

“Court” means the District Court having jurisdiction;

“lease agreement” means any agreement involving
the  lessor  of  a  premises  and  a  lessee  duly
executed in terms of section 2 of the Prevention
of  Frauds  Ordinance  (Chapter  70)  or  an
instrument  of  lease  duly  executed  under  the
provisions of the Registration of Title Act, No.
21 of 1998, for which the stamp duty has been
duly  paid;

“legal interest” means interest calculated at the rate
as determined and published by the Monetary
Board  under  subsection  (2)  of  section  192  of
the Civil Procedure Code;

“lessee”  means  a  person  who  acquires  the  right  to
possession of a premises by way of an instrument
duly  executed  before  a  notary  public  for  the
time being in force, and in the event of his death,
includes  his  heirs,  executor,  administrator  or
legal  representative;

24

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

5

10

15

20

25

“lessor”  means  a  person  who  transfers  the  right  to
possession of a premises by way of an instrument
duly  executed  before  a  notary  public  for  the
time being in force, and in the event of his death,
includes  his  heirs,  executor,  administrator  or
legal  representative;

“other person on his behalf” includes any agent of
the defendant who is in charge of the premises
which is the subject matter of the action;

“possession” includes being in physical occupation
of the premises or having retained the keys of
the premises;

“premises” means any building or part of a building
together with the land appertaining thereto and
includes a bare land without a building or a part
of a multi-storied building;

“private process server” means a person employed
by  an  Attorney-at-law  or  any  institution,  and
who is registered as a private process server by
the Fiscal of the Court under any written law;

“process officer” means-

(a)

(b)

the  Fiscal  assigned  by  the  Court  within
the local limits of whose jurisdiction the
decree nisi is to be served;

any other officer specially authorized in
special  circumstances  by  the  Court  to
serve the decree nisi;

(c)

 Grama Niladhari; or

(d)

a private process server;

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

25

“public officer” shall have the same meaning as in

Article 170 of the Constitution; and

“service  charge”  means  any  service  charge  or
management  fee  payable  by  the  owner  of  a
condominium  unit  to  the  Management
Corporation  established  in  relation  to  such
condominium  property  under    the  Apartment
Ownership Law, No. 11 of 1973 or any service
charge or management fee payable by the owner
of  a  property  to  a  management  company  or
society where such property is situated within
any  property  complex  managed  by  such
company  or  society  and  where  such  service
charge is payable by the lessee under the relevant
agreement between the lessor and the lessee.

5

10

15

39. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

FIRST  SCHEDULE

FORM  OF  DECREE  NISI
(Title.)

[Section  5]

This  action  coming  on  for  disposal  before  (name  and  office  of  Judge)
on  the  ...........................day  of  .....................,  20.................,  and
after  reading  the  plaint  and  documents  and  on  being  satisfied  of  the
averments  contained  in  the  affidavit  of  (name  of  the  plaintiff)  dated
.................,  it  is  ordered  and  decreed  that-

(a)    (name  of  the  defendant),  his  servants,  agents  and  all
those  holding  possession  of  the  premises  described  in
the  Schedule  hereto  under  him  be  ejected  from  the
premises;

(b)    (i)

the  above-named  defendant  do  pay  to  the
above-named 
of
plaintiff 
Rs...............being  the  arrears  of  lease  rental
prayed  for  in  the  plaint,  (if  applicable);

sum 

a 

26

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

 (ii)

the  above-named  defendant  do  pay  to  the
above-named plaintiff a sum of Rs……. being
the  arrears  of  service  charge  due  up
to……………..  and  further  service  charge  at
the  rate  of  Rs.  …………per  mensem  from
……………  until  the  above-named  plaintiff
is restored to vacant possession of the premises
described 
the  Schedule  hereto,  (if
applicable);

in 

(iii)      the  above-named  defendant  do  pay  to  the
above-named  plaintiff  a  sum  of  Rs……….
being  the  liquidated  damages  at  the  rate  of
Rs.  ……….  per  month/quarter/year  from
……….  ….  until  the  above-named  plaintiff
is  restored  to  vacant  and  peaceful  possession
of  the  premises  described  in  the  Schedule
hereto,  (if  applicable),

and  interest  at  the  legal  rate  on  such  sums  from…………….    until
payment  in  full  together  with  costs  of  action.

These  are  therefore  to  command  the  Fiscal  of  the  ....................Province
to  enter  and  to  have  possession  of  the  premises  described  in  the
Schedule  hereto,  to  eject  the  above-named  defendant,  his  servants,
agents  and  all  those  holding  under  him  from  the  premises  described
in  the  Schedule  hereto,  deliver  vacant  possession  to  the  plaintiff  or
any  person  authorized  by  the  plaintiff  and  levy  and  make  of  the
houses,  lands,  goods,  debts  and  credits  of  the  above-named  defendant
by  seizure,  and  if  necessary,  by  sale  thereof,  the    sums  mentioned
above  which  the  above-named  plaintiff  has  to  recover  against  the  said
defendant  by  this  decree  of  Court,  and  have  that  money  before  the
Court  within  …………….  days  of  this  decree nisi  being  made  absolute
and  inform  this  Court  for  what  sum  or  sums  and  to  what  person  or
persons  the  Fiscal  of  the  ......................Province  has  sold  the  property
respectively  and  this  decree  nisi,  when  made  absolute,  shall  serve  as  a
mandate  for  such  purpose.

It  is  further  ordered  that  the  above-named  defendant  shall  appear
before  this  Court  on  the............day  of  .................,  20................at
(time)..........and  make  an  application  seeking  leave  from  the  Court  to
appear  and  show  cause,  if  any,  why  this  decree  nisi  should  not  be
made  absolute.    Where  leave  is  so  granted  to  appear  and  show  cause
and  sufficient  security  as  determined  by  Court  is  deposited,  the  said
defendant  is  permitted  to  appear  and  show  cause  against  the  decree
nisi.  However,  if  no  application  is  made  or  where  an  application  is
made  and  leave  to  appear  and  show  cause  is  not  granted,  for  reasons
assigned,  the  decree  nisi  shall  be  made  absolute  against  the  said
defendant.

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

27

The  Schedule  of  the  premises  above  referred  to

(Signed).......................
(Name  and  office  of  Judge)

On  this  .....................day  of  …………....,  20.............

SECOND  SCHEDULE

[Sections  9(2)  and  9(5)]

FORM  OF  PRECEPT  TO  A  PROCESS  OFFICER/  FISCAL/GRAMA
NILADHARI/PRIVATE  PROCESS  SERVER  TO  SERVE  DECREE
NISI
(Title.)

To  the  Fiscal/Grama  Niladhari  of  the..............................,

……………………,  Private  Process  Server,

……………….  Court  of  ...............................,

Serve  forthwith  the  decree  nisi  in  the  above-named  action,  which,
with  duplicates,  is  herewith  transmitted  to  you,  upon  each  of  the
persons  to  whom  it  is  directed,  and  leave  with  or  tender  to  each  such
person  a  duplicate  decree  nisi  and  one  of  the  copies  of  the  plaint
which  accompany  the  decree  nisi.

It  shall  be  your  duty  when  serving  the  decree  nisi  on  the  defendant  or
any  other  person  on  his  behalf,  to  endeavour  to  obtain  the  signature
or  the  thumb  impression  or  both  of  such  defendant  or  such  person  in
acknowledgment  of  the  service  of  the  decree,  on  the  original  precept.

If  you  are  unable  to  serve  the  decree  nisi  in  exercising  due  diligence,
you  are  hereby  authorized  to  affix  the  decree  nisi  in  some  conspicuous
part  of  the  premises  which  is  the  subject  matter  of  the  action  given  in
the  Schedule  of  the  plaint,  without  any  further  direction  of  the  Court
and  in  every  such  case,  you  shall  report  to  the  Court  that  you  served
the  decree  nisi  by  affixing  the  decree  nisi  in  a  conspicuous  place  of
the  premises  in  suit.

You  are  hereby  directed  to  certify  to  this  Court  within  ten  (10)  days
from  the  date  hereof  by  way  of  a  report,  setting  out  in  detail  of  the
manner,  the  person,  place  and  other  particulars  relating  to  the  identity
of  the  person  on  whom  the  decree  nisi  was  served,  the  date  on  which,
and  the  time  at  which,  the  decree  nisi  was  served  and  also  state  in  the
report,  whether  the  person  on  whom  it  was  served  placed  his  signature
or  thumb  impression  or  both  or  refused  to  place  the  signature  or
thumb  impression  or  both  on  the  original  precept  and  to  attach  to
your  certificate  the  original  precept  as  an  exhibit.

28

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

                               By Order of Court,

(Signed)  .........................
Registrar,

District  Court  of  ...............

On  this  …......day  of..................,  20.................

THIRD  SCHEDULE

FORM  OF  REGISTER

    [Section  29]

No. of
action

Name of
plaintiff

Name of
defendant

Premises
in  suit

Date of
decree
nisi

Date of
decree
absolute/
discharge

Date of
satisfaction
of decree

Any
other
matter

Recovery of Possession of Premises
Given on Lease

29

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

