THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

Part II of February  03, 2022

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 07.02.2022)

SURCHARGE TAX

A

BILL

to provide for the imposition of surcharge tax and for matters connected
therewith and incidental thereto

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Finance

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Surcharge  Tax

1

L.D.–O. 2/2022

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION OF SURCHARGE TAX AND
FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.  This Act may be cited as the Surcharge Tax Act, No.   of

Short  title

2022.

5

2.  (1)  There  shall  be  levied,  subject  to  the  succeeding
provisions  of  this  Act,  a  tax  to  be  called  Surcharge  Tax
(hereinafter referred to as “the tax”)    from –

Imposition
of  Surcharge
Ta x

10

15

20

25

(a) any  individual,  partnership  or  company,  whose
taxable income calculated in accordance with the
provisions  of  the  Inland  Revenue Act,  No.  24  of
2017, exceeds rupees two thousand million, for the
year of assessment commenced on April 1, 2020, at
the rate of twenty five per centum on the taxable
income of such individual, partnership or company,
for such year of assessment:

Provided however, the income of a partner derived
from a partnership shall not be taken into account
when calculating the taxable income of such partner
as an individual under this paragraph, if the tax has
been paid by the partnership on such taxable income;
and

(b) each company of a group of companies, of which
the  aggregate  of  the  taxable  income  of  all
subsidiaries and the holding company in that group
of  companies,  calculated  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  the  Inland  Revenue Act,  No.  24  of
2017, exceeds rupees two thousand million, for the
year of assessment commenced on April 1, 2020,  at
the rate of twenty five per centum, on the taxable

2

Surcharge  Tax

5

10

15

income of each such company after deducting the
gains and profits from dividends received from a
subsidiary which is part of such taxable income of
each such company, for such year of assessment,
notwithstanding that the taxable income of any one
of  such  companies  does  not  exceed  rupees  two
thousand million.

(2) In calculating the aggregate of the taxable income under
paragraph (b) of subsection (1), any subsidiary or any holding
company of such group of companies which has a nil amount
due  to  losses  or  unrelieved  losses,  shall  not  be  taken  into
account.

(3)  Where  the  Commissioner-General  has  approved  an
alternative period of twelve months under the provisions of
the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017, for the purpose of
maintaining accounts of any company liable to pay the tax
under this Act, such approved period shall be deemed to be
the year of assessment commenced on April 1, 2020, for the
purposes of this Act.

20

25

(4)  Every  individual,  partnership,  company  and  the
subsidiaries  and  the  holding  company  of  every  group  of
company liable to pay the tax under this Act, shall pay the tax
in two equal installments on or before, the thirty first day of
March and thirtieth day of June of 2022, to the Commissioner-
General.

(5) The tax shall be collected by the Commissioner-General
and shall be remitted to the Consolidated Fund within fifteen
days from the date of collection.

30

(6) Any subsequent liquidation process of a subsidiary or
the  holding  company  of  a  group  of  companies  shall  not
indemnify any such company from the liability of paying the
tax under this Act.

Surcharge  Tax

3

(7) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any

other written law, –

(a) the tax levied under this Act shall be deemed to be
an expenditure in the financial statement relating to
the year of assessment commenced on April 1, 2020;

(b) no  deduction  shall  be  granted  in  calculating  the
taxable income under the Inland Revenue Act, No.
24  of  2017,  for  any  year  of  assessment,  for  the
payment of the tax under this Act;

(c) no deduction shall be granted in calculating the Value
Added Tax on the supply of financial services under
the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002, for the
payment of the tax under this Act.

(8) For the purpose of this section “taxable income”–

(a) in relation to a company which has entered into an
agreement with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
under section 17 of the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978 and has become liable to
income  tax  determined  in  accordance  with  such
agreement, after the expiration of its period of tax
exemption set out in such agreement means the profit
before income tax and the tax levied under this Act
of  such  company  as  per  the  audited  financial
statement;

(b) in relation to an individual, a partnership, a company
and the subsidiaries and the holding company of a
group  of  companies  other  than  the  companies
referred  to  in  paragraph  (a),  shall  have  the  same
meaning assigned to such expression under section
3 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017.

5

10

15

20

25

30

4

Surcharge  Tax

3.  (1)  Every  individual,  partnership,  company  and  the
subsidiaries  and  the  holding  company  of  every  group  of
company chargeable with the tax under this Act shall on or
prior to March 31, 2022, furnish in writing to the Commissioner-
General, a tax return in the specified form containing such
particulars as may be specified by the Commissioner-General.

Tax  return
shall  be
furnished

(2) The Commissioner-General may specify –

(a) the form for tax returns;

(b) the information to be furnished on the tax return
and attachments if any, required to be filed with
the tax return; and

(c) the manner of filing.

(3) For the purpose of this Act, a tax return furnished under
subsection  (1)  shall  be  treated  as  a  “tax  return”  under  the
provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 and
shall result in a self-assessment.

4. (1) Where any individual, partnership, company or the
subsidiaries  and  the  holding  company  of  any  group  of
companies is liable to pay the tax under this Act, fails to pay
such  tax,  as  provided  for  in  this  Act,  such  individual,
partnership,  company  or  subsidiaries  and  the  holding
company of the group of companies shall be deemed to be a
defaulter of the tax under this Act.

Default  in
payment  of
the  tax

(2) It shall be lawful for an assessment to be made in the
name of the partnership and the amounts thereon shall be
recoverable out of the assets of the partnership, or from any
partner, or from any agent of the partnership.

5

10

15

20

25

Surcharge  Tax

5

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),
the provisions of Chapter IX , Chapter X, Chapter XI, Chapter
XII, Chapter XIII, Chapter XIV, Chapter XV, Chapter XVI,
Chapter XVII, Chapter XVIII of the Inland Revenue Act, No.24
of  2017  shall,  mutatis  mutandis,  be  applicable  to  the
administration, record keeping and information collection,
tax returns, assessments, objections and appeals, liability for
and payment of tax, interest, recovery of tax, penalties and
criminal proceedings under this Act.

Application
of  the  certain
provisions  of
the  Inland
Revenue  Act,
No.24  of
2017

(2) Every reference to income tax in any such provisions of
the Inland Revenue Act, No.24 of 2017, shall be deemed to be
a  reference  to  the  tax  charged  and  levied  in  terms  of  the
provisions of this Act.

(3) Any  default  assessment,  amended  assessment  or
additional  assessment  shall  not  be  made  in  respect  of  an
individual, a partnership, a company or the subsidiaries and
the holding company of a group of companies after the thirty
first day of December, 2024.

6. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires–

Interpretation

“Commissioner-General” shall have the same meaning
assigned  to  such  expression  under  the  Inland
Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;

“Company” shall have the same meaning assigned to
such expression under the Inland Revenue Act,
No. 24 of 2017;

“group of companies” means a holding company and

its subsidiaries;

“holding company” means a company which owns more
than fifty per centum of the shares with voting
rights of another company, directly or indirectly,
other  than  a  holding  company  incorporated

5

10

15

20

25

30

6

Surcharge  Tax

outside  Sri  Lanka  and  not  registered  under
Chapter XVIII of the Companies Act, No.7 of 2007;

“partnership” shall have the same meaning assigned
to such expression under the Inland Revenue Act,
No. 24 of 2017;

“tax return” shall have the same meaning assigned to
such expression under the Inland Revenue Act,
No. 24 of 2017;

“subsidiary” means a company in which more than fifty
per  centum of  its  shares  with  voting  rights  are
owned by another company, directly or indirectly
other than a subsidiary incorporated outside Sri
Lanka and not registered under Chapter XVIII of
the Companies Act, No.7 of 2007 of a holding
company incorporated outside Sri Lanka and not
registered under Chapter XVIII of the Companies
Act;

“year  of  assessment”  shall  have  the  same  meaning
assigned to such expression under section 20 of
the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017.

5

10

15

20

7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

Surcharge  Tax

7

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

