THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of February 15, 2019

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 15.02.2019)

JUDICATURE (AMENDMENT)

A

BILL

to amend the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Justice and Prison Reforms

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2: This clause amends section 45 of the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978 and the legal
effect of the section as amended is to enable Justices of Peace to be appointed for any Administrative
District and to deem all those who have been appointed to any zone, district or division prior to
coming  into  operation  of  this  proviso  to  have  been  appointed  to  such  Administrative  District,
containing the Divisional Secretary’s Division within which the residence of such Justice of the
Peace was situated at the time of appointment and to enable the Minister to make regulations for
the suspension, cancellation and termination of office of Justices of Peace.

Judicature (Amendment)

1

L. D.—O. 33/ 2017

AN ACT TO AMEND THE JUDICATURE ACT, NO. 2 OF 1978

BE  it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the Judicature (Amendment)

Short title.

Act, No.      of 2019.

5

2. Section 45 of the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978 is

hereby amended as follows:—

Amendment of
section 45 of
Act, No. 2 of
1978.

(i) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and
the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following  new
subsection:—

10

15

20

25

“(2) The Minister may, from time to time by notice
published in the Gazette, appoint such persons
as shall be named in such notice to be Justices
of the Peace for the Republic of Sri Lanka or
for  any  administrative  district  as  to  the
Minister shall seem expedient:

Provided however, where any appointment
of  any  Justice  of  the  Peace  has  been  made
prior to the date of coming into operation of
this proviso for any zone, district or division,
such  appointment  shall  be  deemed  to  have
been  made  for  the  relevant  administrative
district containing the Divisional Secretary’s
Division within which the residence of such
Justice of the Peace was situated at the time
of  appointment  for  such  zone,  district  or
division.”.

2

Judicature (Amendment)

(ii) by  the  insertion  of  the  following  new  subsection

immediately after subsection (2):—

“(2A) For 

the  purposes  of 

this  section
“administrative  district”  shall  mean  an
administrative district established under the
Administrative Districts Act (Chapter 392).”.

(iii) by  the  insertion  of  the  following  subsection

immediately after subsection (5):—

“(6) The  Minister  may  make  regulations  for  the
suspension,  cancellation  and  termination  of
office of a Justice of the Peace.”.

3.

In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of
inconsistency.

5

10

Judicature (Amendment)

3

Department of Government Printing

