PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

TWENTIETH  AMENDMENT  TO  THE
CONSTITUTION

[Certified on 29th of October, 2020]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 29, 2020

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 44.00

Postage : Rs. 35.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

1

[Certified on 29th of October, 2020]

L.D.- O. 7/2020

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CONSTITUTION OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Twentieth Amendment to

Short  title.

the Constitution.

2. The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka (in this Act referred to as the “Constitution”) is
hereby amended in paragraph (3A)(a)(i) of Article 31 thereof,
by the substitution, for the words “by election, for a further
term.” of the words “by election, for a second term.”.

3. Article 33 of the Constitution is hereby repealed and the

following Article substituted therefor:-

“Powers  and
functions  of
the
President.

33. In addition to the powers and functions
expressly conferred on or assigned to him by the
Constitution or by any written law, the President
shall have the power-

Amendment  of
Article  31  of  the
Constitution  of
the  Democratic
Socialist
Republic  of
Sri  Lanka.

Replacement  of
Article  33  of
the  Constitution.

(a)

to  make  the  Statement  of  Government
Policy in Parliament at the commencement
of each session of Parliament;

(b)

to  preside  at  ceremonial  sittings  of
Parliament;

(c)

to  ensure  the  creation  of  proper
conditions  for  the  conduct  of  free  and
fair elections, at the request of the Election
Commission;

2

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

(d)

(e)

(f)

to receive and recognize and to appoint
and  accredit  Ambassadors,  High
Commissioners,  Plenipotentiaries  and
other diplomatic agents;

to  appoint  as  President’s  Counsel,
attorneys-at-law  who  have  reached
eminence  in  the  profession  and  have
maintained  high  standards  of  conduct
and  professional  rectitude.  Every
President’s Counsel appointed under this
paragraph  shall  be  entitled  to  all  such
privileges as were hitherto enjoyed by a
Queen’s Counsel;

to keep the Public Seal of the Republic,
and to make and execute under the Public
Seal the acts of appointment of the Prime
Minister  and  other  Ministers  of  the
Cabinet of Ministers, the Chief Justice
and  other  Judges  of  the  Supreme
Court, the President and other Judges of
the Court of Appeal and such grants and
dispositions  of  lands  and  immovable
property vested in the Republic as he is
by law required or empowered to do, and
to use the Public Seal for sealing all things
whatsoever that shall pass that Seal;

(g)

to declare war and peace; and

(h)

to do all such acts and things, not being
inconsistent  with  the  provisions  of  the
Constitution  or  written  law,  as  by
international law, custom or usage he is
required or authorized to do.”.

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

3

4.  Article 33A of the Constitution is hereby repealed.

5.  Article 35 of the Constitution is hereby repealed and

the following Article substituted therefor:-

“Immunity
of
President
from  suit.

35.  (1)  While  any  person  holds  office  as
President, no proceedings shall be instituted or
continued against him in any court or tribunal in
respect of anything done or omitted to be done
by him either in his official or private capacity:

Repeal  of
Article  33A  of
the
Constitution.

Replacement  of
Article  35  of
the
Constitution.

Provided that nothing in this paragraph shall
be  read  and  construed  as  restricting  the  right
of any person to make an application under Article
126 against the Attorney-General, in respect of
anything  done  or  omitted  to  be  done  by  the
President, in his official capacity:

Provided further that the Supreme Court shall
have  no  jurisdiction  to  pronounce  upon  the
exercise  of  the  powers  of  the  President  under
paragraph (g) of Article 33.

(2) Where provision is made by law limiting
the  time  within  which  proceedings  of  any
description may be brought against any person,
the  period  of  time  during  which  such  person
holds the office of President shall not be taken
into  account  in  calculating  the  period  of  time
prescribed by that law.

(3) The immunity conferred by the provisions
of paragraph (1) of this Article shall not apply to
any proceedings in any court in relation to the
exercise of any power pertaining to any subject
or function assigned to the President or remaining

Replacement  of
Chapter  VIIA
of  the
Constitution.

4

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

in his charge under paragraph (2) of Article 44 or
to  proceedings  in  the  Supreme  Court  under
paragraph (2) of Article 129 or to proceedings in
the Supreme Court under Article 130 (a) relating
to the election of the President or the validity of
a referendum or to proceedings in the Court of
Appeal under Article 144 or in the Supreme Court,
relating to the election of a Member of Parliament:

Provided that any such proceedings in relation
to the exercise of any power pertaining to any
such subject or function shall be instituted against
the Attorney-General.”.

6.  Chapter  VIIA  of  the  Constitution  is  hereby

repealed and the following Chapter substituted therefor:-

“CHAPTER   VII A

 THE     EXECUTIVE

 THE PARLIAMENTARY COUNCIL

President  to
make  the
appointments
in  respect
of  the
Commissions
and  offices
referred  to
in  the
Schedules.

41A. (1) The Chairmen and members of the
Commissions  referred  to  in  Schedule  I  to  this
Article and the persons to be appointed to the
offices referred to in Part I and Part II of Schedule
II  to  this Article  shall  be  appointed  to  such
Commissions and such offices by the President.
In making such appointments, the President shall
seek the observations of a Parliamentary Council
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  “the  Council”),
comprising–

(a) the Prime Minister;

(b) the Speaker;

(c) the Leader of the Opposition;

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

5

(d) a nominee of the Prime Minister, who
shall be a Member of Parliament; and

(e) a  nominee  of  the  Leader  of  the
Opposition, who shall be a Member of
Parliament:

Provided that, the persons appointed in terms
of  sub-paragraphs  (d)  and  (e)  above  shall  be
nominated in such manner as would ensure that
the nominees would belong to communities which
are communities other than those to which the
persons specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
above, belong.

SCHEDULE   I

1. The Election Commission.

2. The Public Service Commission.

3. The National Police Commission.

4. The Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka.

5. The Commission to Investigate Allegations of

Bribery or Corruption.

6. The Finance Commission.

7. The Delimitation Commission.

SCHEDULE   II

PART I

1. The  Chief  Justice  and  the  Judges  of  the

Supreme Court.

2. The  President  and  Judges  of  the  Court  of

Appeal.

3. The  Members  of  the  Judicial  Service

Commission, other than the Chairman.

6

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

PART  II

1. The Attorney-General.

2. The Auditor-General.

3. The  Parliamentary  Commissioner  for

Administration (Ombudsman).

4. The Secretary-General of Parliament.

5. The Inspector-General of Police.

(2) The Speaker shall require the Prime Minister
and  the  Leader  of  the  Opposition  to  make  such
nominations  within  one  week  of  the  date  of  the
commencement of this Article, provided that if the
Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition fail
to make such nominations, the Speaker shall proceed
to  nominate  any  Members  of  Parliament  to  be
nominees  for  the  purposes  of  sub-paragraphs  (d)
and (e) of paragraph (1), taking into consideration
the criteria specified in the proviso to paragraph (1)
of  this Article.

(3)  If  at  the  time  the  President  seeks  the
observations of the Council under paragraph (1),
the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition
have failed to nominate the persons who shall be
their  nominees  in  the  Council,  the  Speaker  shall
nominate  such  Members  of  Parliament  to  be
nominees  for  the  purposes  of  sub-paragraphs  (d)
and (e) of paragraph (1), taking into consideration
the criteria specified in the proviso to paragraph (1)
of this Article.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
(2) of Article 64 of the Constitution, the Speaker
shall, for the purpose of this Article, continue as
Speaker  on  the  dissolution  of  Parliament,  until  a

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

7

Member of Parliament is elected to be the Speaker
under paragraph (1) of Article 64. The new Speaker
shall thereupon be a member of the Council.

(5)  Notwithstanding  the  dissolution  of
Parliament, the Leader of the Opposition shall for
the purposes of this Article, continue as Leader of
the  Opposition,  until  such  time  after  a  General
Election following such dissolution, a Member of
Parliament  is  recognized  as  the  Leader  of  the
Opposition in Parliament. The new Leader of the
Opposition  shall  thereupon  be  a  member  of  the
Council.

(6)  Notwithstanding  the  dissolution  of
Parliament, the nominees of the Prime Minister and
the Leader of the Opposition respectively who are
Members of Parliament shall continue as members
until such time after a General Election following
such dissolution, Members of Parliament are elected
to Parliament. The Prime Minister and the Leader of
the  Opposition  shall  thereupon  respectively
nominate two new members of Parliament to be their
nominees in terms of sub-paragraphs (d) and (e) of
paragraph (1) of this Article.

(7) The tenure of the Council constituted under
this Article shall extend for such period as specified
in paragraph (2) of Article 62 and such tenure shall
not be affected by any prorogation of Parliament in
terms of Article70:

Provided  that,  the  persons  appointed  as
nominees of the Prime Minister and the Leader of
the Opposition respectively, may during such tenure
at the request of the Prime Minister or the Leader of
the Opposition, as the case may be, be removed by
the President for the reasons assigned therefor or in
the  event  of  an  incapacity  of  such  nominee,  the

8

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

President  may  require  the  Prime  Minister  or
Leader of the Opposition, as the case may be, to
nominate  taking  into  consideration  the  criteria
specified in the proviso to paragraph (1), another
Member of Parliament to be his nominee in the
Council.  In  such  an  event,  the  Member  of
Parliament nominated to fill the vacancy created
by either removal or incapacity, as the case may
be, shall continue as member of the Council only
for  the  unexpired  period  of  the  tenure  of  the
member  for  whose  vacancy  he  was  nominated.

(8)  (a)  When  the  President  seeks  the
observations of the Council under paragraph (1),
he  shall  require  the  Council  to  convey  through
the Speaker the observations of the Council, on
the  persons  proposed  by  him  for  such
appointments, within a period of one week from
the  date  of  seeking  such  observations.

(b)  If  the  Council  fails  to  communicate  its
observations  to  him  within  the  period  specified
in  sub-paragraph  (a),  the  President  shall
forthwith  proceed  to  make  the  aforesaid
appointments.

(9)  Where  the  Leader  of  any  recognized
political  party  represented  in  Parliament  desires
to  propose  the  name  of  any  person  for
appointment    as  Chairman  or  member  of  a
Commission  referred      to  in  Schedule  I  to
paragraph  (1)  of  this Article,  he  may  within  a
period of one week from the date of  the President
seeking  such  observations  of  the  Council,
forward  to  the  Speaker  the  name  of  any  person
in  relation  thereto.The  President  may  take  such
names  into  consideration  when  making  such
appointments.

(10) No person appointed to be the Chairman
or  member  of  a  Commission  referred  to  in
Schedule  I  of  this Article  or  any  of  the  persons
appointed to the offices referred to in Part I and

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

9

Part  II  of  Schedule  II  of  this  Article  shall  be
removed, otherwise than in the manner provided for
in the Constitution or in any law enacted for such
purpose.  Where  no  such  provision  is  made,  such
person shall be removed by the President.

(11)  (a) The Speaker shall be the Chairman of the

Council.

(b) The procedure to be followed in obtaining
the  observations  of  the  Council  shall  be  as
determined by the Speaker.

(12) The Council shall perform and discharge
such other duties and functions as may be imposed
or assigned to the Council by the Constitution, or
by any other written law.”.

7.  Chapter VIII of the Constitution is hereby repealed

and the following Chapter substituted therefor:-

 “CHAPTER   VIII

THE    EXECUTIVE

THE CABINET OF MINISTERS

Responsibility
of  the
President.

  42.  The  President  shall  be  responsible  to
Parliament for the due exercise, performance and
discharge  of  his  powers,  duties  and  functions
under  the  Constitution  and  any  written  law,
including the law for the time being relating to
public security.

Cabinet
of
Ministers.

43. (1) There shall be a Cabinet of Ministers
charged  with  the  direction  and  control  of  the
Government  of  the  Republic,  which  shall  be
collectively  responsible  and  answerable  to
Parliament.

Replacement  of
Chapter  VIII  of
the
Constitution.

10

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

(2) The President shall be a member of the
Cabinet of Ministers and shall be the Head of
the Cabinet of Ministers:

Provided 

that  notwithstanding 

the
dissolution  of  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  under
the provisions of the Constitution, the President
shall continue in office.

Ministers
of  Cabinet
and  their
subjects
and
functions.

(3)  The  President  shall  appoint  as  Prime
Minister the Member of Parliament who in his
opinion is most likely to command the confidence
of Parliament.

44.  (1)  The  President  shall,  from  time  to
time,  in  consultation  with  the  Prime  Minister,
where  he  considers  such  consultation  to  be
necessary  –

(a) determine the number of Ministers of
the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  and  the
Ministries  and  the  assignment  of
subjects  and  functions  to  such
Ministers;  and

(b) appoint  from  among  the  Members  of
Parliament, Ministers to be in charge of
the Ministries so determined.

(2) The President may assign to himself any
subject or function and shall remain in charge of
any  subject  or  function  not  assigned  to  any
Minister under the provisions of paragraph (1)
of this Article or the provisions of paragraph (1)
of Article 45 and may for that purpose determine
the number of Ministries to be in his charge, and
accordingly, any reference in the Constitution or
any written law to the Minister to whom such
subject  or  function  is  assigned,  shall  be  read
and construed as a reference to the President.

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

11

Ministers
who  are  not
members  of
the  Cabinet
and  their
Ministries,
subjects  and
functions.

(3) The President may, at any time, change
the  assignment  of  subjects  and  functions  and
the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers. Such
changes  shall  not  affect  the  continuity  of  the
Cabinet  of  Ministers,  and  the  continuity  of  its
responsibility to Parliament.

45. (1) The President may, from time to time,
in consultation with the Prime Minister where he
considers such consultation to be necessary –

(a) appoint  from  among  Members  of
Parliament, Ministers who shall not be
Members of the Cabinet of Ministers;
and

(b) determine  the  assignment  of  subjects
and functions to, and the Ministries, if
any, which are to be in charge of, such
Ministers.

(2)  The  President  may  at  any  time  change
any  appointment  or  assignment  made  under
paragraph (1) of this Article.

(3)  Every  Minister  appointed  under  this
Article shall be responsible and answerable to
the Cabinet of Ministers and to Parliament.

(4) Any Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers
may, by Notification published in the Gazette,
delegate to any Minister who is not a member of
the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  any  power  or  duty
pertaining to any subject or function assigned to
him, or any power or duty conferred or imposed
on him by any written law and it shall be lawful
for such other Minister to exercise and perform
any power or duty delegated to him under this
paragraph,  notwithstanding  anything  to  the

12

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

Deputy
Ministers.

Tenure  of
office  of
the  Prime
Minister,
Ministers
and
Deputy
Ministers
and  the
limitation
of  number
of
Ministers
and
Deputy
Ministers.

contrary in the written law by which that power
or duty is conferred or imposed on such Minister
of the Cabinet of Ministers.

46. (1) The President may, from time to time,
in consultation with the Prime Minister, where
he considers such consultation to be necessary,
appoint from among the Members of Parliament,
Deputy Ministers to assist the Ministers of the
Cabinet of Ministers in the performance of their
duties.

(2) Any Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers
may, by Notification published in the Gazette,
delegate  to  his  Deputy  Minister  any  power  or
duty  pertaining  to  any  subject  or  function
assigned to him, or any power or duty conferred
or imposed on him by any written law and it shall
be lawful for the Deputy Minister to exercise and
perform any power or duty delegated to him under
this paragraph notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in the written law by which that power
or duty is conferred or imposed on such Minister
of the Cabinet of Ministers.

47.

(1)

The total number of  -

(a) Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers

shall not exceed thirty; and

(b) Ministers who are not members of the
Cabinet  of  Ministers  and  Deputy
Ministers  shall  not,  in  the  aggregate
exceed forty.

(2)  The  Prime  Minister,  a  Minister  of  the
Cabinet  of  Ministers,  any  other  Minister  or
Deputy  Minister  shall  continue  to  hold  office
throughout the period during which the Cabinet
of  Ministers  continues  to  function  under  the
provisions of the Constitution unless he-

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

13

(a)

(b)

is removed by a writing under the hand
of the President;

resigns his office by a writing under
his  hand  addressed  to  the  President;
or

(c)

ceases to be a Member of Parliament.

(3)    Notwithstanding  anything  contained
in  paragraph  (1)  of  this Article,  where  the
recognized  political  party  or  the  independent
group which obtains highest number of seats
in Parliament forms a National Government, the
number of Ministers in the Cabinet of Ministers,
the number of Ministers who are not Cabinet of
Ministers and the number of Deputy Ministers
shall be determined by Parliament.

(4)    For  the  purpose  of  paragraph  (3),
“National Government” means, a Government
formed by the recognized political party or the
independent  group  which  obtains  the  highest
number of seats in Parliament together with the
other  recognized  political  parties  or  the
independent  groups.

48. (1) The Cabinet of Ministers functioning
immediately prior to the dissolution of Parliament
shall,  notwithstanding  such  dissolution
continue to function and shall cease to function
upon  the  conclusion  of  the  General  Election.
Accordingly, the Prime Minister, Ministers of the
Cabinet of Ministers, other Ministers and Deputy
Ministers  shall  continue  to  function  unless
they  cease  to  hold  office  as  provided  in
sub-paragraph  (a)  or  (b)  of  paragraph  (2)  of
Article 47.

Cabinet  of
Ministers
after
dissolution
of
Parliament.

14

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

(2) Notwithstanding the death, removal from
office or resignation of the Prime Minister, during
the period intervening between the dissolution
of Parliament and the conclusion of the General
Election, the Cabinet of Ministers shall continue
to  function  with  the  other  Ministers  of  the
Cabinet as its members until the conclusion of
the General Election. The President may appoint
one  such  Minister  to  exercise,  perform  and
discharge, or may himself exercise, perform and
discharge the powers, duties and functions of
the  Prime  Minister.  If  there  is  no  such  other
Minister, the President shall himself exercise
perform and discharge the powers, duties and
functions of the Cabinet of Ministers until the
conclusion of the General Election.

(3)  On  the  death,  removal  from  office  or
resignation,  during  the  period  intervening
between the dissolution of Parliament and the
conclusion of the General Election, of a Minister
of the Cabinet of Ministers or any other Minister,
the President may appoint any other Minister
to be the Minister in charge of such Ministry or
to exercise, perform and discharge the powers,
duties and functions of such Minister or may
himself take charge of such Ministry or exercise,
perform and discharge such powers, duties and
functions.

49.  (1)  On  the  Prime  Minister  ceasing  to
hold office by death, removal, resignation or
otherwise, except during the period intervening
between the dissolution of Parliament and the
conclusion of the General Election the Cabinet
of Ministers shall, unless the President has in
the  exercise  of  his  powers  under Article  70
dissolved Parliament, stand dissolved and the
President  shall  appoint  a  Prime  Minister,
Ministers  of  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers,  other
Ministers  and  Deputy  Ministers  in  terms  of
Articles 43, 44, 45 and 46:

Dissolution  of
Cabinet  of
Ministers.

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

15

Provided that if after the Prime Minister so
ceases to hold office, Parliament is dissolved,
the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  shall  continue  to
function with the other Ministers of the Cabinet
as  its  members,  until  the  conclusion  of  the
General Election. The President may appoint
one  such  Minister  to  exercise,  perform  and
discharge or may himself exercise, perform and
discharge the powers, duties and functions of
the Prime Minister and the provisions of Article
48 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply.

(2) If Parliament rejects the Statement of
Government Policy or the Appropriation Bill or
passes  a  vote  of  no-confidence  in  the
Government,  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  shall
stand dissolved, and the President shall, unless
he  has  in  the  exercise  of  his  powers  under
Article 70 dissolved Parliament, appoint a Prime
Minister, Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers,
other Ministers and Deputy Ministers in terms
of Articles 43, 44, 45 and 46.

Acting
Minister  and
acting
Deputy
Minister.

50. Whenever a Minister of the Cabinet of
Ministers, other Minister or Deputy Minister is
unable to discharge the functions of his office,
the  President  may  appoint  any  Member  of
Parliament to act in place of the said Minister of
the  Cabinet  of  Ministers,  other  Minister  or
Deputy Minister.

Secretary
to  the
Prime
Minister
and
Secretary
to  the
Cabinet  of
Ministers.

51. (1) (a)There shall be a Secretary to the
Prime Minister who shall be appointed by the
President.

(b) The Secretary to the Prime Minister
shall  have  charge  of  the  Office  of  the  Prime
Minister and shall perform and discharge the
duties  and  functions  of  his  office,  subject  to
the directions of the Prime Minister.

16

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

(2) There  shall  be  a  Secretary  to  the
Cabinet of Ministers who shall be appointed
by the President.The Secretary shall, subject
to the direction of the President, have charge
of the Office of the Cabinet of Ministers, and
shall  discharge  and  perform  such  other
functions  and  duties  as  may  be  assigned  to
him  by  the  President  or  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers.

Secretaries
t o
Ministries.

52. (1) There shall be for each Ministry a
Secretary  who  shall  be  appointed  by  the
President.

(2)  The  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  shall,
subject  to  the  direction  and  control  of  his
Minister,  exercise  supervision  over  the
departments  of  Government  or  other
institutions in the charge of his Minister.

(3) The Secretary to a Ministry shall cease
to  hold  office  upon  the  dissolution  of  the
Cabinet of Ministers under the provisions of
the  Constitution  or  upon  a  determination  by
the President under Article 44 or Article 45 which
results in such Ministry ceasing to exist.

(4) Where the Secretary to a Ministry so
ceases to hold office, the Cabinet of Ministers
may appoint such Secretary to any other post
in the Public Service:

Provided  that  a  person  who  immediately
prior to his appointment as Secretary was in
the Public or Local Government Service or in
the service of any public corporation shall be
deemed to have been temporarily released from
such service and shall be entitled to revert to
such service without loss of seniority upon his
so ceasing to hold office as Secretary.

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

17

(5)  The  proviso  to  paragraph  (4)  of  this
Article  shall,  mutatis  mutandis,  apply  to  a
Secretary to a Ministry upon –

(a)

the President terminating his services,
otherwise  than  by  dismissal  on
disciplinary grounds; or

(b) his  resignation,  unless  disciplinary
proceedings  are  pending  or
contemplated against him on the date
of his resignation.

(6) For the purposes of paragraphs (4) and
(5)  of  this  Article,  any  person  who  has
continuously  held  the  office  of  Secretary  to
the President, Secretary to a Ministry or any
other office in the President’s staff or any one
or more of such offices shall be deemed to have
continuously held the office which such person
last held.

(7) For the purposes of this Article –

(a)

the Office of the Secretary-General of
Parliament,  the  Office  of  the
Parliamentary  Commissioner  for
Administration  (Ombudsman),  the
Public  Service  Commission,  the
Election  Commission,  the  National
Police Commission and the Office of
the  Secretary  to  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers;  and

(b)

the National Audit Office,

shall  be  deemed  not  to  be  departments  of
Government.

18

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

Official
oath  or
affirmation.

53.  A  person  appointed  to  any  office
referred to in this Chapter shall not enter upon
the duties of his office until such person takes
and  subscribes  the  oath  or  makes  and
subscribes the affirmations set out in the Fourth
Schedule and Seventh Schedule.”.

Amendment  of
Article  54  of
the  Constitution

8. Article 54 of the Constitution is hereby amended as

follows:-

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article, and
the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following
paragraph:-

“(1) There shall be a Public Service Commission
(in  this  Chapter  referred  to  as  the
“Commission”) which shall consist of not less
than  five  members  and  not  more  than  nine
members appointed by the President subject
to the provisions of Article 41A, of whom not
less than three members shall be persons who
have  had  over  fifteen  years  experience  as
public officers. The President shall appoint
one of such members as its Chairman.”;

(2)

(3)

by the substitution, in paragraph (4) of that Article,
for the words “by the President with the approval
of  the  Constitutional  Council  or  is  convicted”  of
the words “by the President or is convicted”;

by the substitution, in paragraph (7) of that Article,
for the words “such period, on the recommendation
of the Constitutional Council, appoint” of the words
and figures “such period, subject to the provisions
of Article 41A, appoint”.

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

19

9. Article 61D of the Constitution is hereby amended by
the substitution,  for the words “the affirmation set out in the
Fourth  Schedule  to  the  Constitution.”  of  the  words  “the
affirmations set out in the Fourth and Seventh Schedules to
the Constitution.”.

Amendment  of
Article  61D  of
the
Constitution.

Replacement  of
Articles  61E  and
61F  of  the
Constitution.

10. Articles 61E and 61F of the Constitution are hereby
repealed and the following Articles are substituted therefor:-

“Appointments
by  the
President.

61E. The President shall appoint –

(a)  the Heads of the Army, the Navy and

the Air Force; and

(b) subject to the provisions of Article 41A,
the Attorney-General and the Inspector-
General of Police.

Interpretation.

61F.  For the purposes of this Chapter, “public
officer” does not include a member of the Army,
Navy, or Air Force, an officer of the Election
Commission appointed by such Commission or
a  scheduled  public  officer  appointed  by  the
Judicial Service Commission.”.

11. Article 65 of the Constitution is hereby amended as

follows:-

Amendment  of
Article  65  of  the
Constitution.

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article, and
the  substitution  therefor,  of  the  following
paragraph:-

“(1)  There shall be a Secretary-General of
Parliament who shall, subject to the provisions
of Article 41A, be appointed by the President
and  who  shall  hold  office  during  good
behaviour.”;

(2) by the repeal of paragraph (6) of that Article, and
the substitution therefor of the following paragraph:-

“(6)  Whenever the Secretary-General is
unable to discharge the functions of his office,
the President may appoint a person to act in
the place of the Secretary-General.”.

20

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

Amendment  of
Article  70  of
the
Constitution.

12.  Article 70 of the Constitution is hereby amended by
the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article, and the substitution
therefor of the following paragraph:-

“(1) The  President  may,  from  time  to  time,  by
Proclamation  summon,  prorogue  and  dissolve
Parliament:

Provided that –

(a) subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (d),
the President shall not dissolve Parliament until
the expiration of a period of not less than two
years and six months from the date appointed
for  its  first  meeting,  unless  Parliament  by
resolution  requests  the  President  to  dissolve
Parliament;

(b) the  President  shall  not  dissolve  Parliament  on
the  rejection  of  the  Statement  of  Government
Policy at the commencement of the first session
of Parliament after a General Election;

(c) subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (d),
the President shall not dissolve Parliament after
the  Speaker  has  entertained  a  resolution
complying  with 
requirements  of
the 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of paragraph (2) of
Article 38, unless –

(i) such resolution is not passed as required
by sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph (2) of
Article 38;

 (ii) the Supreme Court determines and reports
that  the  President  has  not  become
permanently incapable of discharging the
functions of his office or that the President
has  not  been  guilty  of  any  of  the  other
allegations contained in such resolution;

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

21

(iii) the consequent resolution for the removal
of the President is not passed as required
by sub-paragraph (e) of paragraph (2) of
Article 38; or

(iv) Parliament  by  resolution  requests  the

President to dissolve Parliament;

(d) where the President has not dissolved Parliament
consequent upon the rejection by Parliament of
the  Appropriation  Bill,  the  President  shall
dissolve Parliament if  Parliament rejects the next
Appropriation Bill.”.

13. Article 78 of the Constitution is hereby amended as

follows:-

Amendment  of
Article  78  of  the
Constitution.

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (1) thereof, and the
substitution therefor of the following paragraph:-

“(1) Every Bill shall be published in the
Gazette at least seven days before it is placed
on the Order Paper of Parliament.”; and

(2) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (2)
of that Article, of the following paragraph:-

“(3) Any amendment proposed to a Bill in
Parliament shall not deviate from the merits
and principles of such Bill.”.

14. Article 85 of the Constitution is hereby amended by
the insertion, immediately after paragraph (1) of that Article,
of the following paragraph:-

Amendment  of
Article  85  of  the
Constitution.

“(2) The President may in his discretion submit
to the People by Referendum any Bill (not being a
Bill for the repeal or amendment of any provision of
the Constitution, or for the addition of any provision

Amendment  of
Article  91  of
the
Constitution.

22

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

to the Constitution, or for the repeal and replacement
of the Constitution, or which is inconsistent with
any provision of the Constitution), which has been
rejected by Parliament.”.

15. Article 91 of the Constitution is hereby amended in
sub-paragraph (d) of paragraph (1) of that Article, as follows:-

(1)

by the repeal of items (iv), (iva), (v), (va) and (vb)
of that sub-paragraph and the substitution therefor
of the following items:-

“(iv)

a member of any Commission referred to in Schedule
I to Article 41A,

(v)

a member of a Provincial Public Service Commission,

(va)

the Commissioner-General of Elections,”;

(2)

by the repeal of item (xiii) of that sub-paragraph.

Amendment  of
Article  92  of  the
Constitution.

16. Article 92 of the Constitution is hereby amended,
by the substitution in paragraph (a) of that Article, for the
words “thirty five”, of the word “thirty”.

Amendment  of
Article  95  of
the
Constitution.

Amendment  of
Article  103  of
the
Constitution.

17. Article 95 of the Constitution is hereby amended in
paragraph (2) of that Article, by the substitution for the words
and figure “paragraph (1) of this Article, appoint”, of the
words and figures “paragraph (1) of this Article and subject
to the provisions of Article 41A, appoint”.

18. Article 103 of the Constitution is hereby amended

as follows:-

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article, and
the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following
paragraph:-

“(1) There shall be an Election Commission
(in  this  Chapter  referred  to  as  the

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

23

“Commission”)  consisting  of  five  members
appointed  by  the  President  subject  to  the
provisions  of  Article  41A,  from  amongst
persons who have distinguished themselves
in  any  profession  or  in  the  field  of
administration  or  education.  One  of  the
members so appointed shall be a retired officer
of  the  Department  of  Elections  or  Election
Commission, who has held office as a Deputy
Commissioner  of  Elections  or  above.The
President  shall  appoint  one  member  as  its
Chairman.”;

(2) by the repeal of paragraph (7) of that Article, and
the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following
paragraph:-

“(7) The President may grant a member leave
from the performance of his duties relating to
the Commission for a period not exceeding
two months and may, subject to the provisions
of Article 41A, appoint a person qualified to
be  a  member  of  the  Commission  to  be  a
temporary  member  for  the  period  of  such
leave.”.

Amendment  of
Article  104B  of
the
Constitution.

19.  Article 104B of the Constitution is hereby amended

as follows:-

(1) by  the  substitution,  in  sub-paragraph  (i)  of
paragraph  (4)(a)  of  that Article,  for  the  words
“the  election  or  any  candidate  of  any  political
party”, of the words “the election of any candidate
or any political party”;

(2) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (4)
of that Article, of the following paragraph:-

“(4a) For the avoidance of doubt it is stated
that any guideline issued by the Commission
during the period commencing on the date of

24

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

the making of an Order for the holding of an
election  or  the  date  of  the  making  of  a
Proclamation  requiring  the  conduct  of  the
Referendum, as the case may be, shall –

(a) be limited to matters which are directly
connected  with  the  holding  of  the
respective election or the conduct of the
respective Referendum, as the case may
be; and

(b) not  be  connected  directly  with  any
matter relating to the public service or
any  matter  within  the  ambit  of
administration  of  the  Public  Service
Commission  or  the  Judicial  Service
Commission,  as  the  case  may  be,
appointed under the Constitution.”;

(3) by the repeal of sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph
(5) of that Article and substitution therefor of the
following paragraph:-

“(b) It shall be the duty of any broadcasting
or  telecasting  operator  or  any  proprietor  or
publisher of a newspaper, as the case may be,
to  take  all  necessary  steps  to  ensure
compliance with any guidelines as are issued
to them under paragraph (a).”.

Amendment  of
Article  104E  of
the
Constitution.

20. Article104E of the Constitution is hereby amended

as follows:-

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article and the

substitution therefor, of the following paragraph:-

“(1)  There shall be a Commissioner-General of
Elections  who  shall  be  appointed  by  the
Commission on such terms and conditions as shall
be determined by the Commission.”;

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

25

(2) by the repeal of sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph (7)
of that Article and the substitution therefor, of the
following sub-paragraph:-

“(c) on his attaining the age of sixty years;”.

21. Article 107 of the Constitution is hereby amended by
the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article and the substitution
therefor of the following paragraph:-

Amendment  of
Article  107  of
the
Constitution.

“(1) The Chief Justice, the President of the Court
of Appeal  and  every  other  Judge  of  the  Supreme
Court and the Court of Appeal shall be appointed
by the President subject to the provisions of Article
41A, by Warrant under his hand.”.

22. Article 109 of the Constitution is hereby repealed and

the following Article substituted therefor:-

Replacement  of
Article  109  of
the  Constitution.

“Acting
appointments.

109. (1) If the Chief Justice or the President of
the  Court  of Appeal  is  temporarily  unable  to
exercise,  perform  and  discharge  the  powers,
duties and functions of his office, by reason of
illness, absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause
the President shall, subject to the provisions of
Article 41A, appoint another Judge of the Supreme
Court, or of the Court of Appeal, as the case may
be, to act in the office of Chief Justice, or the
President of the Court of Appeal, respectively,
during such period.

 (2) If any Judge of the Supreme Court or of
the  Court  of Appeal  is  temporarily  unable  to
exercise,  perform  and  discharge  the  powers,
duties and functions of his office, by reason of
illness, absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause,
the President may, subject to the provisions of
Article  41A,  appoint  another  Judge  to  act  as  a
Judge of the Supreme Court or Court of Appeal,
as the case may be, during such period.”.

26

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

Amendment  of
Article  111D  of
the
Constitution.

23. Article 111D of the Constitution is hereby amended
in paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for the
words “appointed by the President, subject to the approval
of  the  Constitutional  Council.”,  of  the  words  and  figures
“appointed  by  the  President  subject  to  the  provisions  of
Article 41A.”.

Amendment  of
Article  111E  of
the
Constitution.

24. Article 111E of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the repeal of  paragraphs (5) and (6) of that Article, and the
substitution therefor of the following paragraphs:-

“(5) The President may grant to any member of the
Commission leave from his duties and may, subject to
the provisions of Article 41A, appoint a person qualified
to be a member of the Commission to be a temporary
member for the period of such leave.

(6) The President may, for cause assigned, remove

from office any member of the Commission.”.

Amendment  of
Article  119  of
the
Constitution.

25. Article 119 of the Constitution is hereby amended in
paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for the words
“not more than ten other judges”, of the words “not more
than sixteen other Judges”.

Insertion  of  new
Article  122  of
the
Constitution.

26. The    following  new  Article  is  hereby  inserted
immediately after Article 121 and shall have effect as Article
122 of the Constitution:-

“Special
exercise  of
constitutional
jurisdiction
in  respect
of  urgent
Bills.

122. (1) In the case of a Bill which is, in view of
the Cabinet of Ministers, urgent in the interest of
national security or for the purpose of any matter
relating  to  disaster  management,  and  bears  an
endorsement to that effect under the hand of the
Secretary to the Cabinet –

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

27

(a) the provisions of paragraph (1) of Article
78 and of Article 121, shall, subject to the
provisions of paragraph (2) of this Article,
have no application;

(b) the President shall, by a written reference
addressed to the Chief Justice, require the
special determination of the Supreme Court
as  to  whether  the  Bill  or  any  provision
thereof 
the
Constitution. A  copy  of  such  reference
shall at the same time be delivered to the
Speaker;

inconsistent  with 

is 

(c) the  Supreme  Court  shall  make  its
determination within twenty-four hours (or
such  longer  period  not  exceeding  three
days as the President may specify) of the
assembling  of  the  Court  and  shall
communicate its determination only to the
President and the Speaker.

(2) The provisions of paragraph (2) of Article
121 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such Bill.

(3)  The  provisions  of  this Article  shall  not
apply to any Bill for the amendment, repeal and
replacement,  alteration  or  addition  of  any
provision  of  the  Constitution  or  for  the  repeal
and replacement of the Constitution.”.

27. Article 123 of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the insertion immediately after paragraph (2) of that  Article,
of the following new paragraph: -

Amendment  of
Article  123  of
the
Constitution.

“(3) In the case of a Bill endorsed as provided in
Article 122, if the Supreme Court entertains a doubt
whether  the  Bill  or  any  provision  thereof  is
inconsistent with the Constitution, it shall be deemed

28

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

to  have  been  determined  that  the  Bill  or  such
provision  of  the  Bill  is  inconsistent  with  the
Constitution, and the Supreme Court shall comply
with the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this
Article.”.

Amendment  of
Article  124  of
the
Constitution.

28. Article 124 of the Constitution is hereby amended
by the substitution for the words and figures “provided in
Articles 120 and 121,”, of the words and figures “provided in
Articles 120,121 and 122,”.

Amendment  of
Article  128  of
the
Constitution.

29. Article 128 of the Constitution is hereby amended,
by the addition, immediately after paragraph (4) of that Article,
of the following new paragraph:-

“(5) Any application for leave to appeal or special
leave to appeal made to the Supreme Court under this
Article may be granted or refused, as the case may be,
by not less than two Judges of the Supreme Court.”.

Amendment  of
Article  134  of
the
Constitution.

30. Article 134 of the Constitution is hereby amended in
paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for the figures
“121, 125,”, of the figures “121, 122,125,”.

Amendment  of
Article  137  of
the
Constitution.

Amendment  of
Article  153  of
the
Constitution.

31. Article 137 of the Constitution is hereby amended
by  the  substitution,  for  the  words  “not  more  than  eleven
other  Judges”  of  the  words  “not  more  than  nineteen  other
Judges”.

32. Article 153 of the Constitution is hereby amended as

follows: -

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article, and
the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following
paragraph:-

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

29

“(1) There shall be an Auditor-General who
shall  be  a  qualified  auditor  and  who  shall,
subject  to  the  provisions  of Article  41A,  be
appointed  by  the  President.  The  Auditor-
General  shall  hold  office  during  good
behaviour.”;

(2) by the repeal of paragraph (4) of that Article, and
the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following
paragraph: -

“(4)  Whenever  the  Auditor-General  is
unable to discharge the functions of his office,
the President may, subject to the provisions
of Article 41A, appoint a qualified auditor to
act  in the place of the Auditor-General.”.

33. Article 153A of the Constitution is hereby repealed.

34. Article 153B of the Constitution is hereby repealed.

35. Article 153C of the Constitution is hereby  repealed.

36. Article 153D of the Constitution is hereby repealed.

37. Article 153E of the Constitution is hereby repealed.

38. Article 153F of the Constitution is hereby repealed.

39. Article 153G of the Constitution is hereby repealed.

Repeal  of
Article  153A
of  the
Constitution.

Repeal  of
Article  153B
of  the
Constitution.

Repeal  of
Article  153C
of  the
Constitution.

Repeal  of
Article  153D
of  the
Constitution.

Repeal  of
Article  153E
of  the
Constitution.

Repeal  of
Article  153F
of  the
Constitution.

Repeal  of
Article  153G
of  the
Constitution.

Repeal  of
Article  153H  of
the
Constitution.

Amendment  of
Article  154  of
the
Constitution.

30

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

40. Article 153H of the Constitution is hereby repealed.

41. Article 154 of the Constitution is hereby amended in
paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for all the
words  and  figures  from  “the  Offices  of  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers,” to the end of that paragraph, of the words and
figures “the Office of the Secretary to the Cabinet of Ministers,
the Offices of the Ministers appointed under Article 44 or 45,
the Judicial Service Commission, the Parliamentary Council,
the Commissions referred to in Schedule I to Article 41A, the
Provincial Public Service Commissions, the Parliamentary
Commissioner for Administration, the Secretary-General of
Parliament, local authorities, public corporations, business
and other undertakings vested in the Government under any
written  law  and  companies  registered  or  deemed  to  be
registered under the Companies  Act, No. 7 of 2007  in which
the Government or a public corporation or local authority
holds fifty per centum or more of the shares of that company,
including the accounts threreof.”.

Amendment  of
Article  154R  of
the
Constitution.

42. Article 154R of the Constitution is hereby amended
in paragraph (1) of that Article, by the repeal of sub-paragraph
(c)  of  that  paragraph,  and  the  substitution  therefor  of  the
following sub-paragraph: -

“(c)

three  other  members  appointed  by  the  President,
subject to the provisions of Article 41A, to represent
the three major  communities each of whom shall be
a person who has distinguished himself, or held high
office, in the field of finance, law, administration,
business or learning.”.

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

31

43. Article 155A of the Constitution is hereby amended

as follows:-

Amendment  of
Article  155A  of
the
Constitution.

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (1) of that Article, and
the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following
paragraph:-

“(1)  There shall be a National Police
Commission (in this Chapter referred to as
the  “Commission”)  consisting  of  not  less
than five members and not more than seven
members appointed by the President subject
to  the  provisions  of  Article  41A.  The
President shall appoint one member as the
Chairman of the Commission.”; and

(2) by the repeal of paragraph (4) of that Article, and
the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following
paragraph: -

“(4) Every member of the Commission
shall hold office for a period of three years
from the date of his appointment, unless he
becomes  subject  to  any  disqualification
under paragraph (2) of this Article, or earlier
resigns from his office by writing addressed
to the President or is removed from office
by the President, or is convicted by a court
of  law  of  any  offence  involving  moral
turpitude or if a resolution for the imposition
of civic disability upon him has been passed
in terms of Article 81 or is deemed to have
vacated his office under paragraph (6) of
this Article.”.

32

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

Amendment  of
Article  155B  of
the
Constitution.

44. Article 155B of the Constitution is hereby amended

as follows:-

(1)

in paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution
for the words “shall be four members”, of the words
“shall be five members”;

(2) by the repeal of paragraph (5) of that Article.

Amendment  of
Article  155C  of
the
Constitution.

Amendment  of
Article  155F  of
the
Constitution.

45. Article 155C of the Constitution is hereby amended
in paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for the
words and figures “under Article 126 and the powers granted
to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal under Article 155L,”
of the words and figures “under paragraph (1) of Article 126,”.

46. Article 155F of the Constitution is hereby amended in
paragraph (1) of that Article, by the substitution for all the
words  from  “directly  or  indirectly”  to  the  words  “shall  be
guilty”, of the words “directly or indirectly by himself or by or
with any other person, in any manner whatsoever influences
or attempts to influence or interferes with any decision of the
Commission or a Committee or to so influence any member of
the Commission or a Committee shall be guilty”.

Insertion  of  new
Article  155FF  of
the
Constitution.

47. The  following  new  Article  is  hereby  inserted
immediately after Article 155F and shall have effect as Article
155FF of the Constitution: -

“Powers
of  the
Commission.

155FF. The Commission shall be empowered
to  entertain  and  investigate  complaints  from
members of the public or any aggrieved person
against a police officer or the police force, and
shall  provide  redress  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of any law enacted by Parliament. For
this purpose the Commission may make rules to
establish  procedures  for  entertaining  and
investigating  complaints  from  members  of  the
public or any aggrieved person.”.

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

33

48. Article 155G of the Constitution is hereby repealed.

49. Article 155H of the Constitution is hereby repealed.

50. Article 155J of the Constitution is hereby repealed.

51. Article 155K of the Constitution is hereby repealed.

52. Article 155L of the Constitution is hereby repealed.

53. Article 155M of the Constitution is hereby repealed

and the following Article substituted therefor:-

“Saving  of
existing
rules  and
regulations.

155M. All rules, regulations and procedures in
force on the date of the commencement of this
Article relating to police officers shall be deemed
to continue to be operative, until rules, regulations
and procedures are made hereunder by the Public
Service Commission.”.

Repeal  of
Article  155G  of
the  Constitution.

Repeal    of
Article  155H  of
the  Constitution.

Repeal    of
Article  155J  of
the  Constitution.

Repeal    of
Article  155K  of
the  Constitution.

Repeal    of
Article  155L  of
the  Constitution.

Replacement  of
Article  155M  of
the  Constitution.

54. Article 156 of the Constitution is hereby amended

as follows:-

Amendment  of
Article  156  of
the  Constitution

(1)

by the repeal of paragraph (2) of that Article and the
substitution therefor of the following paragraph: -

“(2)  The  Parliamentary  Commissioner  for
Administration  shall,  subject  to  the  provisions
of Article 41A, be appointed by the President and
shall hold office during good behaviour.”;

Repeal  of
Chapter  XIXA
of  the
Constitution.

Repeal  of
Chapter  XIXB
of  the
Constitution.

Amendment  of
Article  170  of
the
Constitution.

34

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

(2) by the repeal of paragraph (5) of that Article and the
substitution therefor of the following paragraph:-

“(5)  Whenever 

the  Parliamentary
Commissioner for Administration is unable to
perform and discharge the duties and functions
of his office, the President shall subject to the
provisions of Article 41A, appoint a person to
act in his place.”.

55. Chapter XIXA of the Constitution (Article 156A) is

hereby repealed.

56. Chapter XIXB of the Constitution (Articles 156B to

156H) is hereby repealed.

57. Article 170 of the Constitution is hereby amended
by  the  repeal  of  the  definition  of  the  expression  “public
officer”  and  the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following
definition: -

“ “public officer” means a person who holds any paid
office under the Republic, other than a judicial
officer but does not include –

(a)

(b)

(c)

the President;

the Prime Minister;

the Speaker;

(d) a Minister appointed under Article 44 or 45;

(e) a  Deputy  Minister  appointed  under

Article 46;

(f) a Member of Parliament;

(g) a member of the Parliamentary Council;

(h) a member of the Judicial Service Commission;

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

35

(i) a member of any Commission referred to in

Article 41A;

(j)

(k)

the Commissioner - General of Elections; ;

the  officers  appointed  to  the  Election
Commission, by the Election Commission;

(l)

the Secretary-General of Parliament;

(m) a member of the staff of the Secretary-General

of Parliament;

(n) a  member  of  the  University  Grants

Commission;

(o) a  member  of  the  Official  Languages

(p)

(q)

Commission;

the Auditor -General; and

the  Parliamentary  Commissioner  for
Administration (Ombudsman)”.

58.

(1)  Every  person  holding  office  on  the  day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
as–

Transitional
Provisions.

(i)

the Chief Justice;

(ii)

Judges of the Supreme Court;

(iii)

the  members  of  the  Judicial  Service
Commission;

(iv)

the President of the Court of Appeal;

(v)

Judges of the Court of Appeal;

(vi)

the Attorney-General;

(vii)

the Auditor-General;

(viii)

the Inspector-General of Police;

(ix)

the  Parliamentary  Commissioner  for
Administration (Ombudsman);

(x)

the Secretary-General of Parliament;

36

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

(xi)

judges of the High Court; or

(xii)

judicial  officers,  scheduled  public  officers,
public officers or police officers,

shall, unless he earlier resigns, dies or is removed from office
continue to hold such office and shall continue to exercise,
perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions of
that office under the same terms and conditions.

(2) Every person holding office on the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act as a member
of the Constitutional Council shall cease to hold such office
with effect from the date of commencement of this  Act.

(3) Every person holding office on the day immediately
preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this Act  as  the
Chairman or a member of –

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

the Election Commission;

the Public Service Commission;

the National Police Commission;

the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka;

the  Commission  to  Investigate Allegations  of
Bribery or Corruption;

(f)

the Finance Commission; and

(g)

the Delimitation Commission,

shall, unless he earlier resigns, dies or is removed from office
continue  to  exercise,  perform  and  discharge  the  powers,
duties and functions of his office until such date on which
the respective Commissions are constituted  in accordance
with Chapter VIIA of the Constitution.

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

37

(4) Every person holding office on the day immediately
preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this Act  as  the
Chairman or a member of –

(a)

the Audit Service Commission; and

(b)

the  National  Procurement  Commission,

shall cease to hold such office with effect from the date of
commencement of this  Act.

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (4),-

(a)

(b)

all  suits,  prosecutions,  actions,  proceedings,
matters or things which have been instituted by or
against  the Audit  Service  Commission  and  the
National Procurement Commission and which are
pending as at the day immediately preceding the
date of commencement of this Act shall, with effect
from  the  date  of  commencement  of  this Act,  be
deemed  to  be  suits,  prosecutions,  actions,
proceedings,  matters  or  things  which  have  been
instituted by or against the Government;

any decree, order or award entered or made in favour
of or against the Audit Service Commission and the
National Procurement Commission by any court or
tribunal  or  other  body  in  any  action,  matter,
proceeding or thing shall, with effect from the date
of commencement of this Act, be deemed to be a
decree, order or award entered or made in favour of
or against the Government and may be enforced
accordingly; and

38

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

(c)

all  property  movable  and  immovable,
belonging to the Audit Service Commission
and the National Procurement Commission as
at the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act shall, with effect
from the date of commencement of this Act,
vest in and be deemed to be the property of
the Government.

(6) All matters relating to the appointment, promotion,
transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of members of the
Sri Lanka State Audit Service and pending before the Audit
Service Commission on the day immediately preceding the
date of commencement of this Act shall, with effect from that
date, stand transferred to the Public Service Commission and
shall  be  determined  by  the  Public  Service  Commission
accordingly.

(7)

 All matters pertaining to-

(a)

(b)

the appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary
control and dismissal of police officers; and

appeals by police officers to the National Police
Commission,

pending before the National Police Commission on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall, with effect from that date, stand transferred to the Public
Service Commission and shall be determined by the Public
Service Commission accordingly.

59. For  the  avoidance  of  doubt,  it  is  hereby  declared
that where there is a requirement in any written law to obtain
the recommendation or approval of the Constitutional Council,
the reference to the Constitutional Council shall be read and
construed as a reference to the Parliamentary Council.

Avoidance  of
doubt.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of
inconsistency.

60.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and Tamil  texts  of  this Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution

39

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

