THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of December 01, 2023

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 05.12.2023)

DAHAM SEWANE SINGITHTHO LAMA
SANWARDANA  PADANAMA
(INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)
A

BILL

to incorporate the
Daham Sewane Singiththo Lama Sanwardana Padanama

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Gamini Lokuge, M.P.
for Colombo District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Daham Sewane Singiththo Lama Sanwardana
Padanama  (Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DAHAM SEWANE SINGITHTHO LAMA
SANWARDANA PADANAMA

WHEREAS a foundation called and known as the “Daham
Sewane  Singiththo  Lama  Sanwardana  Padanama”  has
heretofore  been formed  in  Sri  Lanka  for  the  purpose  of
effectually  carrying  out  its  objects  and  transacting  all
matters connected with the said Foundation according to
the rules agree to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  hereafter
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  expedient  for  the  public
advantage to grant the said application:

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

5

10

15

1. This Act may be cited as the Daham Sewane Singiththo
Lama Sanwardana Padanama  (Incorporation) Act, No.   of
2023.

Short  title

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Daham
Sewane Singiththo Lama Sanwardana Padanama” (hereinafter
referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as member of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate,  with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the “Daham Sewane Singiththo Lama Sanwardana
Padanama” (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and
by  that  name  may  sue  and  be  sued,  with  full  power  and

20

25

Incorporation
of  the  Daham
Sewane
Singiththo
Lama
Sanwardana
Padanama

2

Daham Sewane Singiththo Lama Sanwardana
Padanama  (Incorporation)

authority to have  and use a common seal and alter the same as
its pleasure.

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be-

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

(a) educating  Pre-school  children  up  to  University
students  by  facilitating  many  Language
opportunities;

(b) serving  Children  of  all  religions  together  in  one
accord in order to develop Spiritual equal qualities
among all students;

 (c) identifying, 

feeding  and  educating 

the
malnourished    and  differently  abled  children  in
different communities; and

(d) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for, and incidental to conducive to the attainment
of the above objects.

4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written  law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation or any one of them, including the power-

Powers  of
the
Corporation

(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations in

cash or kind;

(b) to  acquire,  in  any  manner  whatsoever  and  hold,
take  or  give  on  leave  or  hire,  sell  or  otherwise
dispose of, any movable or immovable property

5

10

15

20

25

Daham Sewane Singiththo Lama Sanwardana
Padanama  (Incorporation)

3

and construct, maintain and alter any building or
works  necessary  or  convenient  for  business  of
the  Corporation;

(c)  to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory  notes  and  other  negotiable
instruments and to open, operate and close bank
accounts  and  borrow  or  raise  money  with  or
without  security;

(d) to  invest  any  funds  not  immediately  required  for
the purpose of the Corporation in such manner as
the Board of Management may determine;

(e) to enter into agreement or contracts with any person,
or  body  of  persons  whether  incorporated  in  Sri
Lanka  or  abroad  or  with  any  Government
Department,  Corporation,  Board,  Provincial
Council or Local Authority for the achievement
of the objects of the Corporation;

(f) to  determine  the  fees  to  be  paid  in  request  of
registration  of  different  categories  of
membership; and

(g) appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities
as may be determined by the Corporation.

5

10

15

20

25

5.

(1)  The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the other provinces of this Act and the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation be administered by a Board of

Management
of  the
Corporation

4

Daham Sewane Singiththo Lama Sanwardana
Padanama  (Incorporation)

Directors  consisting  of  the  Director-General,  the  Deputy
Chairman, the Secretary, Deputy Secretary and Treasurer
and  not  less  than  seven  other  members  elected  in
accordance with such rules.

(2) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall consist
of  the  members  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  day
immediately  preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this
Act.

6.  (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to  time,  at  any  general  meeting  and  by  the  votes  not  less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistence with the provisions of this Act or
any  other  written  law,  for  the  admission,  withdrawal  or
expulsion  of  members,  the  election  of  the  Board  of
Management,  for  the  conduct  of  the  duties  of  the  office
bearers, agents, officers and servants of the Corporation, for
the procedure to be followed in the transaction of business
by the Corporation and Board of Management and generally,
for the management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may
as a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.

(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to

the rules of the Corporation.

Rules  of  the
Corporation

7. (1) The  Corporation  shall  have  its  own  fund.  All
moneys received by way of gifts, bequests, donations, transfers,
subscriptions, contributions,  or  fees  shall  be  deposited  to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Board of Management shall determine.

Fund  of  the
Corporation

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation,
all  such  of  money  as  may  be  required  to  defray  any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Daham Sewane Singiththo Lama Sanwardana
Padanama  (Incorporation)

5

(3)  The  moneys  and  property  of  the  Corporation
whosesoever  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion of the objects as set forth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.

5

8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the

calendar year.

Accounts  and
Audit

10

(2)  The  Corporation  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to  be
kept  of  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities  and
all other transitions of the Corporation.

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a

qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.

(4) ln this section, ‘qualified auditor’ means:-

15

(a)

an  individual  who  being  a  member  of  the
lnstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
institute;  or

(b) A  firm  of  Accountants  each  of  the  resident
partners of which, being a member of the lnstitute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any
other  institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate  to  practice  as  an  Accountant  issued
by the Council of such institute.

20

25

6

Daham Sewane Singiththo Lama Sanwardana
Padanama  (Incorporation)

9. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, expect in the presence of the
Director-General  and  the  Secretary  who  shall  sign  their
names on the instrument in token of their presence any person
as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation

10. All debts and liabilities of the foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this
Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted,
and all debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions
payable to the foundation on that day shall be paid to the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Corporation

11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
take and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift,  testamentary  disposition  or  otherwise,  and  all  such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the  time being
of the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

12. lf  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Corporation  there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed  among  the  members  of  the  Corporation  but
shall be given or transferred to some other Foundation or
Foundations  having  objects  similar  to  those  of  the
Corporation,  and  which  is  or  are,  by  its  rules  thereof
prohibited  from  distributing  any  income  or  property
among  its  or  their  members.  Such  foundation  or
foundations  shall  be  determined  by  the  Board  at  or
immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Daham Sewane Singiththo Lama Sanwardana
Padanama  (Incorporation)

7

13. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate  or  of  any  other  person,  except  such  as  are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.

5

Saving  of  the
Rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

14. ln the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts, of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

8

Daham Sewane Singiththo Lama Sanwardana
Padanama  (Incorporation)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

