THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

Part II of November 05, 2021

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 08.11.2021)

ANANDA  ALUTHGAMAGE  DEVELOPMENT,
SOCIAL  SERVICES  AND  CHARITY  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Ananda Aluthgamage Development, Social Services
and Charity Foundation

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Rohana Bandara, M. P.
for Anuradhapura District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Ananda  Aluthgamage  Development,  Social
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT  TO INCORPORATE THE ANANDA ALUTHGAMAGE
DEVELOPMENT, SOCIAL SERVICES AND CHARITY FOUNDATION.

WHEREAS  a  Foundation  called  and  known  as  the
“Ananda  Aluthgamage  Development,  Social  Services  and
Charity Foundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka
for  the  purpose  of  effectually  carrying  out  its  objects  and
transacting all matters  connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be  incorporated,  and  it  will  be  expedient  to  grant  the  said
application:

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

5

10

15

1. This Act may be cited as the Ananda Aluthgamage
Development,  Social  Services  and  Charity  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2021.

Short  title

20

25

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the Ananda
Aluthgamage  Development,  Social  Services  and  Charity
Foundation  (hereinafter referred to as  the  “Foundation”) or
shall  hereafter  be  admitted  as  members  of  the  Corporation
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate  with perpetual
succession,  under  the  name  and  style  of  the  “Ananda
Aluthgamage  Development,  Social  Services  and  Charity
Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) and
by that name may sue and be sued, with full power and authority
to have and use a common seal and  to alter the same at its
pleasure.

Incorporation
of  the
Ananda
Aluthgamage
Development,
Social
Services  and
Charity
Foundation

2

Ananda  Aluthgamage  Development,  Social
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

5

10

(a) to  provide  medical  aid  and  food  to  the  poor,  the

destitute and the sick;

(b) to conduct special services for needy school children
and to offer assistance by way of scholarships, library
facilities and other necessary support for students;

(c) to conduct classes for the students sitting for Year
Five  Scholarship,  GCE  (O/L)  and  GCE  (A/L)
examinations  by  experts  in  the  particular  field  of
education;

(d) to  support  and  encourage  the  service  facilities

rendered by senior citizens organizations;

15

(e) to work for the development of pre-schools for the
early childhood development of needy children;

(f) to give aid by way of scholarships to any officer or
servant engaged in the furtherance of the objects of
the  Corporation;

(g) to promote co-operation and friendship with similar

20

institutions within and outside Sri Lanka;

(h) to organize employees of small and medium scale
industries and enterprises and working towards their
future  advancement;

25

(i) to initiate and implement economic, social, cultural
and  environmental  development  activities  in
Sri Lanka and providing guidance necessary for it;

(j) to  combat  waste  and  corruption  and  utilize  all
resources  belonging  to  our  community  in  a  very
useful manner;

Ananda  Aluthgamage  Development,  Social
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)

3

(k) to  design  and  implement  social  mobilization
programmes  for  the  development  of  children  and
women and implementing educational and training
programmes for this purpose;

5

(l) to initiate and implement technical, industrial and
computer  vocational  training  institutions  and
programmes so that young men and women from
families  of  lower  social  strata  can  gain  self
employment  opportunities;

10

(m)

to  provide  training  necessary  for  young  men  and
women  engaged  in  agriculture  and  guiding  them
towards export crops cultivation, organizing local
and  foreign  marketing  activities  necessary  for  it,
and providing space necessary for cultivation;

15

(n)

to  provide  aids  and  assistance  in  times  of  natural
disasters, emergencies and accidents;

20

25

30

(o)

to  provide  training  in  fields  of  engineering,
technology,  carpentry,  masonary,  driving  and
computing to young men and women who do not
get qualified for higher education and directing them
towards such vocations and starting training centres
necessary for it; and

(p)

to do everything and else as are necessary, incidental
or conducive to the attainment of the above objects
or serveral of them.

4. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  any  other
written  law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary or
desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects of
the Corporation or any one of them, including the power—

Powers  of  the
Corporation

(a)

to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind;

4

Ananda  Aluthgamage  Development,  Social
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)

5

10

(b)

(c)

to  acquire,  in  any  manner  whatsoever  and  hold,
take or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise
dispose of, any movable or immovable property and
construct, maintain and alter any buildings or works
necessary  or  convenient  for  the  business  of  the
Corporation;

to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close bank accounts and
borrow or raise money with or without security;

(d)

to  invest  any  funds  not  immediately  required  for
the purposes of the Corporation in such manner as
the Board of Management may determine;

15

(e)

to  enter  into  agreements  or  contracts  with  any
person, or body of persons whether incorporated in
Sri  Lanka  or  abroad  or  with  any  Government
Department, Corporation, Board, Provincial Council
or Local Authority for the achievement of the objects
of the Corporation;

20

25

30

(f)

(g)

to  determine  the  fees  to  be  paid  in  respect  of
registration of different categories of membership;
and

to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratitutes as
may be determined by the Corporation.

5.

(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being  of  the  Corporation,  be  administered  by  a  Board  of
Directors  consisting  of  the  Director  General,  the  Deputy
Chairman,  the  Secretary,  Deputy  Secretary  and  Treasurer

Management
of  the
Corporation.

Ananda  Aluthgamage  Development,  Social
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)

5

and not less  than seven other members elected in accordance
with such rules.

(2) The  Board of Directors of the Corporation shall  consist
of  the  members  of  the  Board  of  Directors  of  the  day
immediately preceding the  date of commencement of this
Act.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Rules  of  the
Corporation.

6.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any General Meeting and by the votes of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law,  for the admission, withdrawal or expulsion
of members, the election of the Board of Management, for
the conduct of the duties of the office bearers, agents, officers
and  servants  of  the  Corporation,  for  the  procedure  to  be
followed in the transaction of business by the Corporation
and  the  Board  of  Management  and  generally,  for  the
management  of  the  affairs  of  the  Corporation  and  the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may
at a like meeting and in like manner, be altered, added to,
amended or rescinded.

(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to

the rules of the Corporation.

7.

(1)  The  Corporation  shall  have  its  own  Fund.  All
moneys  received  by  way  of    gifts,  bequests,  donations,
transfers,  subscriptions,  contributions  or  fees  shall  be
deposited  to  the  credit  of  the  Corporation  in  one  or  more
Banks as the Board  of Management shall determine.

Fund  of  the
Corporation.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of  money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.

(3)  The  moneys  and  property  of  the  Corporation
whosesoever  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the

6

Ananda  Aluthgamage  Development,  Social
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)

promotion of the objects as set forth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise, to any member of the
Corporation.

5

8.

(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the

calendar year.

Accounts  and
Audit.

(2)  The  Corporation  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to  be
kept  of  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities  and
all other transactions of the Corporation.

10

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a

qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.

(4) In this section, “qualified auditor” means—

(a)

(b)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute; or

a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of  which,being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute.

9.    The seal of the  Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the Director
General and the Secretary who shall sign their names on the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation.

15

20

25

30

10. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Foundation.

Ananda  Aluthgamage  Development,  Social
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)

7

debts  due  to,  and  subscriptions  and  contributions  payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.

11.    The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
take  and  hold  any  property  movable  or  immovable  which
may  become  vested  in  it  by  virtue  of  any  purchase,  grant,
gift,  testamentary  disposition  or  otherwise,  and  all  such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the  Corporation  with  full  power  to  sell,  mortgage,  lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution.

12.

If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Corporation  there
remains  after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be  given  or  transferred  to  some  other  Foundation  or
Foundations  having  objects  similar  to  those  of  the
Corporation,  and  which  is  or  are  by  the  rules  thereof
prohibited from distributing any income or property among
its or  their members. Such Foundation or Foundations shall
be  determined  by  the  Board  at  or  immediately  before  the
dissolution of the Corporation.

13. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate  or  of  any  other  person,  except  such  as  are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others.

14.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency.

5

10

15

20

25

30

8

Ananda  Aluthgamage  Development,  Social
Services and Charity Foundation (Incorporation)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

