PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————

YOHAN  PATHIRANA  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Yohan Pathirana Foundation

————————

Presented by the Hon. Udayana Kirindigoda, M.P.
for Mahanuwara District on 15th of November, 2023

(Published in the Gazette on November 07, 2023)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

[Bill No. 217]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Yohan  Pathirana  Foundation  (Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE YOHAN PATHIRANA FOUNDATION

WHEREAS  a  Foundation  called  and  known  as  the
“Yohan Pathirana Foundation” has heretofore been formed
for  the  purpose  of  effectually  carrying  out  and  transacting
the objects and matters  connected with the said foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  foundation  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and  matters  which  it  was  formed  and  has  applied  to  be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such  application:

BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1.  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Yohan  Pathirana

Short  title

Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.   of  2023

Incorporation
of  the  Yohan
Pathirana
Foundation

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Yohan
Pathirana  Foundation”  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
with  perpetual  succession,  under  the  name  and  style  of
“Yohan Pathirana Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Body Corporate”) and by that name may sue and be sued and
have  full power and authority to have and use a common seal
and to alter the same at its pleasure.

5

10

15

20

25

3. The general objects for which the body corporate is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

General
objects  of  the
body corporate

2

Yohan  Pathirana  Foundation  (Incorporation)

(a) to  take  measures  to  protect  the  discipline  and

cultural values of the people;

(b) to work towards to protect and develop all rights of

women and children;

5

(c) to  promote  peace,  goodwill,  understanding  and
cooperation among all communities and people of
Sri Lanka; and

(d) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign

institutions which have similar objects.

10

15

4.

(1) The affairs of the  body corporate shall, subject to
the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the
time  being    of  the  corporation  be  administered  by  a
Committee  of  Management  constituting  of  Chairman,
Secretary, Treasurer and another eleven members elected in
accordance with     such rules.

Management
of  the  Affairs
of  the    body
corporate

(2) The first Committee of Management shall consist of
the members of the Committee of Management holding office
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act.

20

25

30

5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the  body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform  and  execute  all  such  acts,  matters  and  things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the  body corporate or any
one of them, including the power to aquire and hold property
moveable,  to  open,  operate,  and  close  bank  accounts,  to
borrow or raise moneys with or without security,  invest the
moneys  with  or  without  security  to  erect  and  building  or
structures on any land held by of  the  body corporate and to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants required
for the carrying out of the objects of the  body corporate.

General
Powers  of  the
body
corporate

6.

(1)  It  shall  be  lawful  for  the  body  corporate,  from
time  to  time,  at  any  general  meeting  of  the  members  and
by  a  majority  of  not  less  than  two-thirds  of  the  members

Rules  of  the
body
corporate

Yohan  Pathirana  Foundation  (Incorporation)

3

present  to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of  this  Act  or  any  other  written  law,  on  all  or  any  of  the
following matters:—

(a) the  classification  of  members,  and  addmission,

5

withdrawal, expulsion of members;

10

15

20

(b) the  election  of  the  office  bearers,  the  resignation
from, vacation of or removal from office of office-
bearers and their powers, conduct and duties;

(c) the election of the members of the Committees  of
the Management and its powers, conduct and duties;

(d) the  procedure  to  be  observed  for  the  summoning
and  holding  of  meetings  of  the  Committee  of
Management  or  sub  Committee  and  of  the  time,
places,  notices  and  agenda  of  such  meetings,  the
quorum thereof and the conduct of business thereof;

(e) the  powers,  conduct,  duties  and  functions  of  the
various  officers,  agents  and  servants  of  the
Corporation;

(f) the administration and management of the porperty
of the Corporation, the custody of its fund and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and

(g) the management of the affairs of the body corporate,

and the accomplishment of its objects.

25

(2) Any rule made by the  body corporate may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) Every members of the  body corporate shall be subject

to the rules of the  body corporate.

4

Yohan  Pathirana  Foundation  (Incorporation)

7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the day
preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this  act,  shall  be
paid and discharged by the Corporation hereby constituted
and all debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable
to  the  Foundation  on  that  date  shall  be  paid  to  the  body
corporate for the purposes of the Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
foundation

8.

(1) The body corporate shall have its own fund and
all moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts,  bequest,  donations,    subscription,  contributions,  fees
or  grants  for  and  on  account  of  the  corporation  shall  be
deposited to the credit of the body corporate in one or more
banks as the Committee of Management shall determine.

Fund  of  the
body
corporate

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the  body
corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.

9.    The  body corporate shall be able and capable in law,
to acquire and hold any property, moveable and immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and
all such property shall be held by the  body corporate for the
purposes of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the
time  being  of  the    body  corporate  with  full  power  to  sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Body
corporate
may  hold
property
moveable
and
immovable

10.

If upon the dissolution of the  body corporate there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the  body corporate, but
shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  some  other  institution  or
institutions  having  objects  similar  to  those  of  the    body
corporate and which, is or are by its or their rules  prohibited
from  distributing  any  income  or  property  among  their
members.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

5

10

15

20

25

30

Yohan  Pathirana  Foundation  (Incorporation)

5

11.

(1) The financial year of the body corporation shall

be the calendar year.

Audit  and
accounts  of
the  body
corporate

(2) The body corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of all moneys received and expended, by the  body
corporation.

5

(3) The accounts of the body corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year and the correctness of
income and expenditure account and balance sheet certified
by  a  qualified  auditor  appointed  by  the  Committee  of
Management.

(4) In this section “a qualified auditor” means–

(a)

(b)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or  any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practise as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute; or

a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of  which  being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law possesses a certificate
to practise as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.

12.

(1)  The  Seal  of  the    body  corporate  shall  not  be
affixed to any instrument whatsoever  expect in the presence
of two members of the Committee of Management, who shall
sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
body
corporate

10

15

20

25

6

Yohan  Pathirana  Foundation  (Incorporation)

13. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
body  corporate  or  of  any  other  person  expect  such  as  are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.

5

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

14.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

Yohan  Pathirana  Foundation  (Incorporation)

7

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

