PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————

COLOMBO ASSOCIATION OF LANGUAGE SKILLS
AND  DRAMATIC  ART  (INCORPORATION)

A

BILL

to incorporate Colombo Association of Language
Skills  and Dramatic Art

——————

Presented by the Hon. Shanakiyan Rajaputhiran Rasamanickam,
M.P. for Batticaloa District on 20th of June, 2024

(Published in the Gazette on June 06, 2024)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

[Bill No. 267]

————————

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

2-

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Colombo Association of Language Skills and
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)

1

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE COLOMBO ASSOCIATION OF LANGUAGE
SKILLS AND DRAMATIC ART

WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Colombo
Association  of  Language  Skills  and  Dramatic  Art”  has
heretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all matters
connected with the said Association according to the rules
agreed to by its members :

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Association  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to
grant the said application:

BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

5

10

15

1.  This Act may be cited as the Colombo Association of
Language  Skills  and  Dramatic  Art  (Incorporation)
Act, No.   2024.

Short  title

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the Colombo
Association of Language Skills and Dramatic Art and shall
hereafter be admitted as members of the body corporate hereby
constituted shall have perpetual succession under the name
and style of the “Colombo Association of Language Skills
and  Dramatic  Art”  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  ”body
corporate”), and by that name may sue and be sued with full
power  and  authority  to  have,  and  use  a  common  seal  and
alter the same at its pleasure.

20

25

Incorporation
of  the
Colombo
Association
of  Language
Skills  and
Dramatic  Art

2

Colombo Association of Language Skills and
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)

3. (1) The general objects for which the body corporate is

constituted are hereby declared to be-

General
objects  of  the
body
corporate

5

(a) to  recruit,  train  and  maintain  a  panel  of  examiners
qualified  and  experienced  in  communication  and
performance  skills  and  conduct  examination  in
Speech, Drama, Verse, Prose, Public Speaking, Spoken
and  Written  English,  Personal  and  Professional
English  and  grant  certificates  of  competence  by
conducting examinations and awarding certificates ;

10

(b)

(i) to prepare syllabuses in a wide variety of Oral
Communication and Performing Arts reflecting
the needs of candidates ;

15

20

25

(ii) to keep these syllabuses under constant review
of response to changing patters of training and
comments  from  examiners,  teachers  and
candidates  ;

(iii) to  conduct  fair  examinations  as  stated  in  the

syllabuses ;

(iv) to give reasonable notice of such examinations
to relevant individuals and examination centre;
and

(v) to collect and distribute the results as early as
possible while safeguarding essential checking
procedures ;

(c) to  select  material  within  the  syllabuses  which  will
form part of students' repertorie, enabling the grade
examinations to be used as a guideline for teachers;

Colombo Association of Language Skills and
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)

3

(d) to encourage students to take the appropriate grade
and  diploma  examinations  in  a  variety  of  subjects,
thereby  broadening  and  developing  their  skills  to
the highest level, of their ability;

(e) to foster and encourage a closer bond of friendship
and  understanding  among  teachers  of  English,
Speech, Drama and allied subjects;

(f) to  conduct  regular  teacher  training  programmes,
workshops and seminars in English, Speech, Drama
and allied subjects;

(g) to  conduct  specialised  English  courses  for  the
development  of  personal  and  professional
communication skills ; and

(h) to  provide  the  government,  professional  and
educational  bodies  and  other  interested  persons  or
bodies  the  opportunity  of  ascertaining  the  view  of
the  body  corporate  in  matters  relating  to  Oral
Communication and Dramatic Art, if required to do
so.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified in
subsection  (I),  the  body  corporate  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation shall be carried out without any distinction
based  on  race,  religion,  language,  caste,  gender,  political
opinion, place of birth or such other ground.

4. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out
in such a manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the body corporate and any work being carried out
simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or of any Provincial Council or local authority.

5

10

15

20

25

Body
corporate  to
ensure  no
conflit  with
work  of
Ministry  or
Department
of  the
Government
or  Province

4

Colombo Association of Language Skills and
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)

5.  (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the management
and administration of the affairs of the body corporate shall
be carried out by the Council.

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the  body
corporate

(2) The Council shall consist of the following members:-

5

10

15

20

25

(a) the President ;
(b) the Vice President ;
(c) the Honorary General Secretary;
(d) the Honorary Assistant Secretary ;
(e) the Honorary Treasurer ;
(f) the Honorary Assistant Treasurer ;
(g) the Chairman-Examination Board ;
(h) the  Honorary  Secretary  of  the  Examination

Board ;

(i) the Two Founder Directors ;
(j) any such other member elected or appointed in
accordance  with  the  rules  made  under
Section 7.

(3) (a) The members of the Council of the Colombo
Association of Language Skills and Dramatic Art who hold
office  on  the  day  immediately  preceding  the  date  of
commencement  of  this  Act  shall  function  as  an  Interim
Committee  of  the  body  corporate  until  the  first  Council  is
appointed  or  elected  in  the  manner  provided  for  by  rules
made under Section 7.

(b)  The  Interim  Committee  shall  have  the  power  to
make rules relating to the interim administration of the body
corporate and the election or appointment of the members of
the first Council of the body corporate.

(c) The quorum for a meeting of the Interim Committee

30

shall be six members.

Colombo Association of Language Skills and
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)

5

(d)Any  decision  of  the  Interim  Committee  shall  be
taken by the majority of its members present at any meeting.

(e)  The  first  Council  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be
appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

5

(4)  (a)    Every  office  bearer  of  the  Council  shall  be
appointed or elected for a period of one year from the date of
the annual general meeting and any such office bearer shall
be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after the lapse of
the said period of one year:

10

Provided  however,  the  President,  Vise  President,
Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer and corporate members of the
Council  shall  not  hold  such  office  for  more  than  three
consecutive terms.

15

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Council shall, having regard to the rules of the
body corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

20

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph
(b) shall hold office only for the unexpected portion of the
term of office of the member whom the succeeds.

6. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  any  other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furthermore of the objects
of the body corporate or any one of them, including the power-

25

Powers  of  the
body
corporate

(a) to act on matters affecting the interest of the members

of the body corporate ;

6

Colombo Association of Language Skills and
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)

(b) to  regulate  professional  activities  and  ensure  the
maintenance of high standards in the general conduct
of the members of the body corporate;

(c) to establish an Examinations Board, Advisory Board
and  Disciplinary  Committee  consisting  of  such
number of members as may  be specified by rules ;

(d) to  take  disciplinary  action  against  members  of  the

body corporate ;

(e) to  purchase,  acquire,  rent,  construct,  renovate  and
otherwise  obtain  lands  or  buildings  which  may  be
required for the purpose of the body corporate and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of the
body corporate ;

(f) to enter into an perform or carry out, whether directly
or  through  any  officer  or  agent  authorized  on  that
behalf  by the body corporate, all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment of
the objects or the exercise of the powers of the body
corporate ;

(g) to  borrow  or  raise  funds  with  or  without  securities
and  to  receive  grants,  gifts  or  donations  in  cash  or
kind:

Provided that, the Council shall obtain the
prior written approval of the Department of External
Resources  in  respect  of  all  foreign  grants,  gifts  or
donations made by the body corporate ;

5

10

15

20

25

Colombo Association of Language Skills and
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)

7

(h) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy  sell  and  issue  bills  or  exchange,  cheques,
promissory  notes  and  other  negotiable  instruments
and to open operate, maintain and close accounts in
any  bank ;

(i) to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for the purpose of the body corporate, in such manner
as the Council may determine ;

(j) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and administer
any lawful trust or any real or personal property with
a view promoting the objects of the body corporate ;

(k) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of  officers  and  servants  of  the  body  corporate  and
exercise  disciplinary  control  over  them  and  to  pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the body corporate ;

(l) to  organize,  lectures,  seminars  and  conferences  to
promote the objectives of the body corporate ;

(m) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions having similar objects to that of the body
corporate ;

(n) to  train  personnel  in  Sri  Lanka  or  abroad  for  the

purpose of the body corporate ; and

(o) to do all other things as necessary or expedient for
the proper and effective carrying out of the objects of
the body corporate.

5

10

15

20

25

8

Colombo Association of Language Skills and
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)

7. (1)   It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the body corporate and by
a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
of  this  Act  or  any  other  written  law,  for  all  or  any  of  the
following matters :-

Rules  of  the
body
corporate

(a) the  classification  of  membership  abbreviated
designations  of  the  membership  admissions,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members and
subscription payable by the members ;

(b) the  election  of  office  bearers  of  the  Council  or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties, and functions or the office
bearers ;

(c) the composition of the Examination Board, Advisory
Committee and Disciplinary Committee, the term of
the office bearers of such Board and Committees; the
powers,  duties  and  functions  of  such  Board  and
committee,  the  functions  of  the  Secretary  to  the
Examinations Board, the nomination of the panel of
examiners;  and  any  other  matters  relating  to  such
Board and Committee ;

(d) the  terms  and  conditions  of  appointment,  powers,
functions and duties of various officers, agents, and
servants of the body corporate;

(e) the procedure to be followed for the summoning and
holding  of  meetings  of  the  Council  or  any  sub-
committee  thereof,  notices  and  agenda  of  such
meetings,  the  quorum  and  the  conduct  of  business
thereat ;

5

10

15

20

25

Colombo Association of Language Skills and
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)

9

(f) the  qualifications  and  disqualifications  to  be  a
member of the Council and the body corporate and
the  code  of  conduct  for  the  members  of  the  body
corporate ;

5

(g) the administration and management of the property

of the body corporate ; and

(h) generally the management of the affairs of the body
corporate and the accomplishment of its objects and
dissolution of the body corporate.

10

 (2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be amended,
altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1)  shall be published

in the Gazette.

15

(4) The members of the body corporate shall, at all times

be subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8. The Council shall maintain a register of members in
which the name, address and other essential details of the
members shall be inscribed.

Register  of
members

20

9. (1) The body corporate shall  have its own Fund.

(2)  All  sums  of  money  received  by  way  of  gifts,
bequests,  donations,  subscriptions,  contributions,  fees  or
grants  and  on  account  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be
deposited in one or more banks approved by the Council to
the credit of the body corporate.

25

Fund  of  the
body
corporate

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums
of money as are required to defray any expenditure incurred
by  the  body  corporate  in  the  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under the Act.

10

Colombo Association of Language Skills and
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)

10. (1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
Auditing

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the body corporate.

5

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  the  Auditor  -  General  or  a  qualified  auditor
appointed by the Auditor - General in terms of provisions of
Article 154 of the Constitution.

10

(4) For the purpose of this section “qualified auditor”

means–

(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate to
practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council of
such Institute ; or

(b) a firm off Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  of  any  other  Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as  an  Accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
Institute.

Annual
Report

11. (1) The Council shall prepare a report of the activities
of  the  body  corporate  for  each  financial  year  and  submit
such report together with the audited statement of accounts
certified  by  the  Auditor  -  General  or  qualified  auditor
appointed by the Auditor - General, to the Secretary to the
Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject of Education
under  Article  43  or  44  of  the  Constitution  before  the
expiration of six months of the year succeeding the year to
which such report relates.

15

20

25

30

Colombo Association of Language Skills and
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)

11

(2)  A  separate  statement  of  accounts  relating  to  the
foreign  and  local  sums  of  money  received  by  the  body
corporate during the financial year shall be attached to the
report referred to in subsection (1).

5

10

15

20

25

30

12. All debts and liabilities of the Colombo Association
of  Language  Skills  and  Dramatic  Art  existing  on  the  day
immediately  preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this
Act, shall be paid by the body corporate hereby constituted
and  all  debts  due  to    and  subscriptions  and  contributions
payable  to  the  Colombo  Association  of  Language  Skills
and  Dramatic  Art  on  that  day  shall  be  paid  to  the  body
corporate for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Colombo
Association
of  Language
Skills  and
Dramatic  Art

13.  Subject  to  the  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  the  body
corporate shall be able and capable in law to take and hold
any property, movable or immovable, which may  become
vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by the body corporate for the purpose of this Act and subject
to the rules of the body corporate made under section 7, with
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of the same.

Body
corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

14. The sums of money and property of the body corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion  of  the  objects  of  the  body  corporate  and  no
portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  transferred  directly  or
indirectly by way of divided, bonus or profit to the members
of the body corporate.

Application
of  sums  of
money  and
property

15. (1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members of the Council who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
body
corporate

12

Colombo Association of Language Skills and
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)

(2)  The  seal  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  in  the
custody of an office bearer of the Corporate as may be decided
by the Council.

5

10

15

16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the body corporate, but
shall be given or transferred to any other institution having
objects similar to those of the body corporate, and which is
by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income
or property among its members.

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) of the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at  a  general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or any body politic or corporate.

18. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

Colombo Association of Language Skills and
Dramatic Art (Incorporation)

13

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

