PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

GALAHA BHADDRAWATHIE NATIONAL BHIKKHU
CARE CENTRE TRUST ACT, No. 31 OF 2023

[Certified on 24th of  November, 2023]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November  24, 2023

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Preamble

Ws 2
PL - 012892

Galaha  Bhaddrawathie  National  Bhikkhu
Care Centre Trust Act, No. 31 of 2023

1

[Certified on 24th of November, 2023]

L.D.—O. 26/2016

AN  ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A TRUST CALLED THE
GALAHA BHADDRAWATHIE NATIONAL BHIKKHU CARE CENTRE TRUST
AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS  a  Trust  called  and  known  as  the  “Galaha
Bhaddrawathie  National  Bhikkhu  Care  Centre  Trust”  has
heretofore been established by a Public Trust dated February
7,  2003  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  and  maintaining  a
Bhikkhu Care Centre, for Bhikkhus who are sick and helpless:

AND WHEREAS it has now become apparent that the said
Trust is not functioning properly and therefore it is not possible
to maintain the said Galaha Bhaddrawathie National Bhikkhu
Care Centre due to various reasons including the absence of
proper  administration  in  the  said  Galaha  Bhaddrawathie
National Bhikkhu Care Centre and the absence of a regular
and adequate funding system for the proper functioning of the
said Galaha Bhaddrawathie National Bhikkhu Care Centre:

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary to enact legislation
to provide for the establishment of a Trust called the Galaha
Bhaddrawathie  National  Bhikkhu  Care  Centre  Trust  to
achieve  the  objects  of  the  said  Galaha  Bhaddrawathie
National Bhikkhu Care Centre for the benefit of the Bhikkhus
who are sick and helpless and to matters connected therewith
or incidental thereto:

NOW THEREFORE BE it  enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the Galaha Bhaddrawathie

Short  title

National Bhikkhu Care Centre Trust Act, No. 31 of  2023.

2.

(1) There shall be established a Trust to be called the
Galaha Bhaddrawathie National Bhikkhu Care Centre Trust
(hereinafter referred to as the “Trust”).

Establishment
of  the  Galaha
Bhaddrawathie
National
Bhikkhu  Care
Centre  Trust

2

Galaha  Bhaddrawathie  National  Bhikkhu
Care Centre Trust Act, No. 31 of 2023

(2) The Trust shall, by the name assigned to it by subsection
(1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual succession
and by that name may sue and be sued with full power and
authority  to  have,  and  use  a  common  seal  and  to  alter  the
same.

3. The  object  of  the  Trust  shall  be  to  facilitate  the
accommodation and caring for sick and helpless Bhikkhus
in the Galaha Bhaddrawathie National Bhikkhu Care Centre
(hereinafter referred to as the “Bhikkhu Care Centre”).

4. The functions of the Trust are –

The  object  of
the  Trust

Functions  of
the  Trust

(a)

(b)

(c)

to  maintain  the  Bhikkhu  Care  Centre  for
Bhikkhus  who  are  sick  and  helpless  and
accommodate sick and helpless Bhikkhus in
the Bhikkhu Care Centre on such conditions
and criteria as prescribed by section 8;

to  provide  the  Bhikkhus  residing  in  the
Bhikkhu Care Centre who are sick, with all
the  necessities  including  the  day  to  day
requirements  and  to  facilitate  the  obtaining
of medicines and medical treatment;

to  organize  and  conduct  meditation
programmes and other Buddhist programmes
for the Bhikkhus residing in the Bhikkhu Care
Centre with a view to improving the mental
health of those Bhikkhus; and

(d)

to    maintain  a  library  in  order  to  facilitate
improving  and  refreshing  the  knowledge  of
Buddhism of the resident Bhikkhus.

Board    of
Management
of  the  Trust

5. 

(1) The administration, management and control of
the  affairs  of  the  Trust  shall  be  vested  in  a  Board  of
Management (hereinafter referred to as “the Board”).

Galaha  Bhaddrawathie  National  Bhikkhu
Care Centre Trust Act, No. 31 of 2023

3

(2) The Board shall consist of–

(a)

the following ex-officio members:–

(i) the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister  assigned  the  subject  of  Health
or  his  representative  who  is  not  below
the rank of an Additional Secretary;

(ii) the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister assigned the subject of Buddha
Sasana  or  his  representative  who  is  not
below  the  rank  of  an  Additional
Secretary;

(iii) the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister  assigned  the  subject  of  Social
Services or his representative who is not
below  the  rank  of  an  Additional
Secretary;

(iv) the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister assigned the subject of Finance
or  his  representative  who  is  not  below
the rank of an Additional Secretary;

(v) the  Commissioner-General  of  the
Department  of  Buddhist  Affairs  or  his
representative;

(vi) the Public Trustee or his representative;

(vii) the  District  Secretary  of  the  Kandy

District;

(viii) the Provincial Director of Health Services

of the Central Province;

4

Galaha  Bhaddrawathie  National  Bhikkhu
Care Centre Trust Act, No. 31 of 2023

(ix) the  Divisional  Secretary  of  Divisional
Secretary's Division of Doluwa; and

(x) the  Diyawadana  Nilame  of  Sri  Dalada
Maligawa or his representative; and

(b)

the following members appointed by the Minister
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “appointed
members”):–

(i) two  members  having  knowledge  and
experience  in  administration  and
accountancy  appointed  by  the  Minister
in consultation with the Secretary to the
Ministry;

(ii) four  Bhikkhus  nominated  by  the
Mahanayaka  Theros  of  the  Malwathu,
Asgiri, Amarapura and Ramanna Chapters
to represent such Chapters one of whom
shall be appointed as the Chairperson of
the Board; and

(iii) the President of the Dayaka Sabha of the

Galaha Bhaddrawathie temple.

(3) Any person who has become a member of the Board in
his ex-offficio capacity shall hold office as long as he holds
such office by virtue of which he is a member of the Board.

(4)  Any  appointed  member  of  the  Board  shall  unless  a
vacancy arises in his post by resignation, death or removal
from  office,  hold  office  for  three  years  from  the  date  of
appointment. Any member whose term is due to end otherwise
than  by  removal  shall  be  eligible  for  reappointment.  Such
reappointment shall be for not more than one further term,
whether consecutive or not.

Galaha  Bhaddrawathie  National  Bhikkhu
Care Centre Trust Act, No. 31 of 2023

5

(5)  In  the  event  of  the  vacation  of  office  by  death,
resignation or removal of any appointed member, the Minister
shall,  subject  to  paragraph  (b)  of  subsection  (2),  appoint
another  person  to  fill  such  vacancy  and  such  person  shall
hold office for the un-expired period of the term of office of
the member whom he succeeds.

(6) Any appointed member who is temporarily unable to
discharge his duties and functions as a member of the Board
due to ill health, infirmity, being absent from Sri Lanka or for
other reason for not less than three months shall inform that
to the Minister in writing. In such event the Minister shall
having  regard  to  the  provisions  of  subsection  (2),  appoint
another person to act in the place of such member.

6.  Any person–

(a) if  such  person  is  or  becomes  a  Member  of
Parliament  or  a  Provincial  Council  or  any
Local  Authority;

(b) if  such  person  is  under  any  law  in  force  in
Sri  Lanka  or  in  any  other  country  found  or
declared to be of unsound mind;

(c) if  such  person  is  a  person  having  been
declared as an insolvent or a bankrupt person
under  any  law  in  Sri  Lanka  or  any  other
country and is an undischarged insolvent or
bankrupt;

(d) if  such  person  is  serving  or  has  served  a
sentence  of  imprisonment  imposed  by  any
court in Sri Lanka or any other country,

Disqualification
for  being  a
member

he shall be disqualified from being appointed or continue to
be a member of the Board.

7.  The Board shall subject to the provisions of this Act

or any other written law, have the power–

Powers  of  the
Board

6

Galaha  Bhaddrawathie  National  Bhikkhu
Care Centre Trust Act, No. 31 of 2023

(a)

to receive grants, gifts and donations, both movable
and  immovable  in  cash  or  in  kind,  whether  from
local or foreign sources:

(b)

(c)

Provided that, the Board shall obtain prior written
approval of the Department of External Resources
in respect of all foreign grants, gifts or donations
made to the Trust;

to  acquire  or  hold  any  property,  movable  or
immovable, which may become vested in the Trust
by this Act or by virtue of any purchase, gift, grant,
testamentary disposition or otherwise and, for the
purpose of this Act to sell, mortgage, lease, grant,
convey,  device,  assign,  exchange  or  otherwise
dispose  of  any  property  to  which  the  Trust  may
become entitled to;

to enter into and perform, either directly or through
officers, employees and agents authorized in that
behalf  by  the  Board,  all  such  contracts  and
agreements as may be necessary for the exercise,
performance  and  discharge  of  the  powers,  duties
and functions of the Trust; and

(d)

to  open,  operate  and  close  bank  accounts  in  any
Bank as may be recommended by the Board.

Accommodation
etc.  of  Bhikkhus

8. The  conditions  and  criteria  for  accommodating
Bhikkhus in the Bhikkhu Care Centre and caring for such
Bhikkhus shall be as prescribed by regulations.

Power  of  the
Trust  to  hold
property

9. The Trust shall be capable in law to take and hold
property, movable or immovable, which may become vested
in  it  by  virtue  of  any  purchase,  grant,  gift,  testamentary
disposition or otherwise and all such property shall be held
by the Trust for the purposes of this Act.

Galaha  Bhaddrawathie  National  Bhikkhu
Care Centre Trust Act, No. 31 of 2023

7

10.

(1) Meetings of the Board shall be held at least once

in three months.

Meetings  of
the  Board

(2) The Chairman shall, if present preside at every meeting
of  the  Board.  In  the  absence  of  the  Chairman  from  any
meeting of the Board, the members present at such meeting
shall elect from among themselves a member to preside at
such meeting.

(3)  The  quorum  for  any  meeting  of  the  Board  shall  be

eleven members.

(4)  If  there  is  an  equality  of  votes  at  any  meeting,  the
Chairman or the member presiding at such meeting shall in
addition to his vote, have a casting vote.

(5) The Board may subject to the provisions of this Act
regulate the procedure to be followed in regard to its meetings
and the transaction of its business.

(6) No act, decision or proceeding of the Board shall be
deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of a
vacancy among its members or any defect in the appointment
of any member thereof.

11. The  members  of  the  Board  may  be  paid  such
remuneration  for  attendance  at  meetings  of  the  Board  as
may be determined by the Minister with the concurrence of
the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

Remuneration
for  attending  the
meetings  of  the
Board

12. There shall be an advisory committee consisting of
the Mahanayake Theros of the Malwathu, Asgiri, Amarapura
and  Ramanna  Chapters  to  advise  the  Board  on  matters
relating to the Bhikkhu Care Centre.

Advisory
Committee

8

Galaha  Bhaddrawathie  National  Bhikkhu
Care Centre Trust Act, No. 31 of 2023

Establishment  of
Galaha
Bhaddrawathie
National
Bhikkhu  Care
Centre  Trust
Fund

13.

(1)  There  shall  be  established  a  Fund  called  the
Galaha Bhaddrawathie National Bhikkhu Care Centre Trust
Fund  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Fund”).  The
management,  administration,  control  and  operation  of  the
Fund shall be vested in the Board.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund–

(a) all  such  sums  of  monies  allocated  by  the
Parliament, from time to time, for the purpose
of carrying out the objects of the Fund;

(b) any grant, gift or donation in cash or kind, from
Sri Lanka or outside to achieve the objects of
the Fund, subject to section 7(a).

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of
money  required  to  defray  the  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Trust in the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers,
duties and functions under this Act.

Appointment  of
the  staff  of  the
Trust

14.

(1) The Trust may appoint such number of officers
and employees as it may consider necessary for the efficient
discharge of its functions.

(2) The Trust may in respect of the officers and employees

appointed under subsection (1) –

(a)

exercise disciplinary control over or dismiss such
officers and employees;

(b) determine the terms and conditions of employment

of such officers and employees; and

(c) pay such officers and employees such remuneration
as may be determined by the Board in consultation
with the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

Appointment  of
public  officers

Galaha  Bhaddrawathie  National  Bhikkhu
Care Centre Trust Act, No. 31 of 2023

9

15.

(1) At the request of the Board, any officer in the
public service may, with the consent of that officer and of
the Public Service Commission be temporarily appointed to
the staff of the Trust for such period as may be determined
by the Board, or with like consent, be permanently appointed
to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Trust  the  provisions  of
subsection  (2)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Trust  the  provisions  of
subsection  (3)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.

16.

(1)  The  financial  year  of  the  Trust  shall  be  the

calendar year.

Financial  year
and  audit  of
accounts

(2) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts to be

kept of the income and expenditure of the Trust.

(3)  The  provisions  of  Article  154  of  the  Constitution
relating to the audit of accounts of Public Corporations shall
apply to the audit of accounts of the Trust.

17.

(1) The Board shall within six months of the end of
each financial year submit to the Minister an annual report
on  the  activities  carried  out  by  the  Trust  along  with  the
audited accounts of the Trust for the year.

Annual  reports

(2) The Minister shall within three months from the date
of receipt of the annual report, table such report along with
the documents specified in subsection (1) in Parliament for
its  consideration.

10

Galaha  Bhaddrawathie  National  Bhikkhu
Care Centre Trust Act, No. 31 of 2023

The  seal  of  the
Board

18.

(1) The seal of the Board–

(a) shall be determined by the Board and may
be  altered  in  such  manner  as  may  be
determined by the Board;

(b) shall be in the custody of such person as
the  Board  may  determine,  from  time  to
time;

(c) shall not be affixed to any instrument or
document except with the sanction of the
Board and in the presence of the Chairman
and  another  member  of  the  Board  who
shall sign the instrument or document in
token of their presence.

(2) The Board shall maintain a register in respect of the
instruments and documents to which the seal of the Board is
affixed.

Recovery  of
expenses  from
any  suit  or
prosecution

19.

(1) Any expense incurred by the Trust in any suit or
prosecution brought by, or against the Trust before any court,
shall be paid out of the moneys of the Fund and any cost
recovered by the Trust in any such suit or prosecution shall
be credited to the Fund.

(2) Any expense incurred by any member of the Board or
any officer or employee of the Trust in any suit or prosecution
brought against him in any court in respect of any act which
is done or purported to be done by him under this Act or on
the direction of the Board shall, if the court holds that such
act was  done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund unless
such expense is recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

Galaha  Bhaddrawathie  National  Bhikkhu
Care Centre Trust Act, No. 31 of 2023

11

20.

(1) The  Minister  may  in  consultation  with  the
Mahanayaka  Theros  of  the  Malwathu,  Asgiri,  Amarapura
and Ramanna Chapters, make regulations for matters required
by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of which regulations
are authorized to be made.

Regulations

(2) Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  shall  be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the  date  of  such  publication  or  such  later  date  as  may  be
specified in such regulations.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall within
three months after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for its approval. Every regulation which
is  not  so  approved  by  Parliament  shall  be  deemed  to  be
rescinded as from the date of such disapproval, but without
prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notice  of  the  date  on  which  any  regulation  is  so

disapproved shall be published in the Gazette.

21.

(1) The  Board  may  make  rules  in  respect  of  all

Rules

matters authorized to be made by this Act.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions
of subsection (1), rules may be made in respect of all or any
of the following matters:–

(a)

the  administration  and  management  of  the
Trust;

(b) conduct  of  its  meetings  and  matters  relating

thereto;

(c)

to  conduct  inquiries  in  respect  of  breach  of
conditions 
to
accommodating and caring for Bhikkhus in the
Bhikku Care Centre; and

relating 

criteria 

and 

Officers  and
servants  of  the
Trust  deemed  to
be  public
servants  under
the  Penal  Code

Trust  deemed  to
be  a  scheduled
institution  within
the  meaning  of
the  Anti
corruption  Act

Interpretation

12

Galaha  Bhaddrawathie  National  Bhikkhu
Care Centre Trust Act, No. 31 of 2023

(d)

the  programmes  organized  and  conducted  by
the Bhikkhu Care Centre.

22. All officers and servants of the Trust shall be deemed
to be public servants within the meaning and for the purpose
of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

23. The  Trust  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Anti  Corruption  Act,
No. 9 of 2023 and the provisions of that Act shall be construed
accordingly.

24.
requires–

In  this  Act,  unless  the  context  otherwise

“Bhikkhu” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in
the Buddhist Temporalities Ordinance (Chapter 318);

“Minister” means the Minister to whom the implementation

of the provisions of this Act is assigned.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

25.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Galaha  Bhaddrawathie  National  Bhikkhu
Care Centre Trust Act, No. 31 of 2023

13

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

