THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

Part II of April 09, 2021

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 15.04.2021)

PUBLIC  HEALTH  EMERGENCY

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to provide for the Declaration of a State of Public Health Emergency; to
provide for the Adoption of Special Measures in the Interests of Public Health;
 and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. M. A. Sumanthiran,
M. P. for Jaffna District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 23.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Public Health Emergency

1

AN ACT TO TO PROVIDE FOR THE DECLARATION OF A STATE OF PUBLIC
HEALTH EMERGENCY; TO PROVIDE FOR THE ADOPTION OF SPECIAL
MEASURES IN THE INTERESTS OF PUBLIC HEALTH; AND TO PROVIDE
FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

WHEREAS  Covid  19  pandemic  has  continued  to  spread
throughout the world:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  it  is  expedient  to  lawfully  provide  for
measures to combit it and any other pandemics in the furure:

5

THEREFORE  BE  it  enacted  by  the  Parliament  of  the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the Public Health Emergency
Act, No.    of 2021 and shall come into force on the date of
Certification in terms of Article 79 of the Constitution.

Short  title

10

15

20

25

PART I

GENERAL

2. Wherer, in view of the existence or imminence of a
state of public health emergency, Parliament is of the opinion
that it is expedient so to do in the interests of public health,
and upon the written advice of the Director General if Health
Services, it may by Resolution by not less than two-thirds of
the whole number of Members (including those not present)
has  arisen  and  the  provisions  of  Part  II  of  this  Act  shall,
forthwith  or  on  such  date  as  may  by  specified  in  the
Resolution, come into operation throughout Sri Lanka or in
such part or parts of Sri Lanka as may be so specified.

Declaration
of  a  public
health
emergency

3.

(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other law, Parliament, the Cabiner of Ministers, courts, the
Public Health Emergency Council as hereinafter provided
for,  and  any  other  such  bodies  and  institutions,  may  sit,
convene,  and  hole  sessions  through  the  use  of
conemporaneous  or  near  contemporaneous  audio-visual
linkage during the period of a public health emergency.

Remote
converning

2

Public Health Emergency

(2) All necessary technical, infrastructural and monetary
resources required for the purpose of such contemporaneous
or near contemporaneous audio-visual linkage shall be made
available to the relevant bodies and institutions.

5

(3)  All  minutes  of  such  meetings  held  in  terms  of
subsection  (1)  shall  be  recorded  and  stored  in  electronic
form  and  transcribed  thereafter  in  accordance  with  the
ordinary rules applicable to such meetings.

10

15

20

Remote
services

4.

(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other law, during the period of a public health emergency,
and to the extent that is reasonable, any person may access
any  public  service,  including  the  issuance  or  renewal  of
identity  documentation,  the  issuance  of  birty,  death  or
marriage certificates, the issuance of certificates of absence,
and  the  issuance  or  renewal  of  licenses,  through  remote
electronic means, whereby the person is not required to be
physically present for the purpose of receiving such service.

(2) All necessary technical, infrastructural and monetary
resources required for the purpose of such remote electronic
access  shall  be  made  available  to  the  relevant  bodies  and
institution  providing  a  public  service  specified  in
subsection (1).

PART II

STATE OF PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY

25

5. Any Resolution adopted under section 2 of this Act
shall specify the contagious disease that is the primary cause
for a state of public health emergency:

Specifying
contagious
disease

30

Provided that where a contagious disease is incorrectly
identified  in  the  Resolution  adopted  under  section  2,
Parliament may amend the Resolution without prejudice to
the measures taken under Part II of this Act in pursuance of
such  Resolution.

Public Health Emergency

3

6.

(1)  Where  a  public  health  emergency  has  been
declared under section 2 of this Act, there shall be constituted
a  body  called  the  Public  Health  Emergency  Council
(hereinafter in this Act referred to as the “Council”).

Public  Health
Emergency
Council

5

(2) The Council shall consist of—

(a) the President, who shall be the Chairman of the

Council;

(b) the  Prime  Minister,  who  shall  be  the  Vice-

Chairman of the Council;

10

(c) the Leader of the Opposition;

(d) the  Minister  in  charge  of  the  following

subjects:—

(i) Health;

(ii) Social Welfare;

15

(iii) Environment;

(iv) Home Affairs;

(v) Science  and  Techonology;

(vi) Defence;

(vii) Police;

20

(viii) Finance;

(ix) foregin Affairs;

(x) Education;  and

4

Public Health Emergency

(xi) Any  other  such  Ministers  in  charge  of
subjects  deemed  relevant  by  Parliament
to  the  public  health  emergency  declared
under section 2 of this Act.

5

(e) The Director General of Health Services;

(f) the persons referred to in subsection (3).

(3) The Speaker shall in consultation with the Leader of
the  Opposition,  nominate  five  persons  from  amongst  the
Opposition  Members  of  Parliament  to  be  members  of  the
Council.

10

(4)  The  functions  of  the  Council  shall  be  to  formulate

and implement a national plan and program for—

(i) the effective use of resources for the detection and
containment  of  the  contagious  disease  specified
under section 5 of this Act;

15

(ii) the enhancement of public awareness and training to
help members of the public protect themselves from
the said contagious disease specified under section
5 of this Act;

20

(iii) the  uninterrupted  supply  of  goods  and  services

specified in section 10 of this Act;

(iv) the provision of the goods and services specified in
section  10  of  this  Act  to  persons  unable  to  access
such goods and services owing to destitution;

25

(v) the  adoption  of  all  other    measures  necessary  to
counter  the  contagious  disease  specified  under
section 5 of this Act as may be decided by the Council
for such purposes.

Public Health Emergency

5

(5)  The  Council  shall  recommend  to  Parliament  the
allocation  of  all  technical,  infrastructral  and  monetary
resources as may be required to implement the national plan
formulated under subsection (4).

5

(6) The Council may make rules to regulate the procedure
in regard to the conduct of its meetings, and the transaction
of business at such meetings.

(7) The quorum for any meeting of the Council shall be

one-third of its total membership.

10

15

7. Where the provisions of Part II of this Act have come
into operation on any date by virtue of a Resolution under
section 2, those provisions shall be in operation for a period
of  sixty  days  from  that  date,  but  without  prejudice  to  the
earlier  revocation  of  the  Resolution  or  the  adoption  of  a
further Resolution at or before the end of that period.

Period  of
public  health
emergency

8. When the period of a public health emergency comes
to an end, any order, direction or decision under this Part of
the Act issued during and in pursuance to a state of public
health emergency shall cease to have effect with respect to
any time following the end of such period.

20

End  of  public
health
emergency

9.

(1) The Minister may, on the written advice of the
Director General of Health Services, by Order published in
the Gazette, and for a period not exceeding fourteen days,
probibit or restrict in a manner specified in such Order:—

Temporary
restriction  of
fundamental
rights

25

(a) public  assemblies;

(b) religious worship, observance, practice, and teaching

in  public;

(c) engagement in an occupation not specified in section

10 of this Act;

30

(d) travel to and from places of dwelling;

6

Public Health Emergency

(e) being on any public road, railway, public park, public
recreation    ground,  the  seashore,  or  in  a  public
restaurant,  hotel,  place  of  public  entertainment,  or
any other such public place,

5

except  under  the  authority  of  a  written  permit  granted  by
such designated person or authority as may be specified in
such Order.

(2) Any Order issued under subsection (1) shall forthwith
be communicated to Parliament, which may by Resolution
revoke such Order.

10

(3) Parliament may, by Resolution, extend an Order issued
under  subsection  (1)  for  a  further  period  not  exceeding
fourteen  days,  and  may  by  similar  Resolutions  thereafter
extend such Order for further periods not exceeding fourteen
days.

15

(4)  Any  person  who  without  reasonable  cause  fails  to
comply with an Order issued under subsection (1) shall be
guilty  of  an  offence,  and  shall  be  liable  to  be  placed  in
quarantine in terms of section 13(1)(a) of this Act.

20

(5)  Every  person  who  commits  an  offence  under  this
section  shall,  on  conviction  after  summary  trial  before  a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousand
rupees.

10.

(1)  An  person  engaged  in  a  lawfull  occupation

25

essential services relating to:—

Essential
services

(a) health  care;

(b)

(c)

30

the  provision  of  a  public  utility  service,  including
water, electricity, or sanitation;

the production, transport, and delivery of medicines,
healthcare technology and medical-surgical devices;

Public Health Emergency

7

(d)

the production, transport and delivery of agricultural
and food products;

(e) Law enforcement and defence;

(f) Any  activity  functional  to  the  facing  of  the  public

5

health emergency,

shall  be  permitted  to  engage  in  such  lawful  occupation
notwithstanding the provisions of this Act.

10

(2)  The  Council  specified  in  section  6  of  this  Act  may
recommend to Parliament that monetary resources be made
for the purpose of maintaining any institution or undertaking
that is in the business of providing goods or services specified
in subsection (1).

11.

(1) The Minister may, on the written advice of the
Director General of Health Services, by Order published in
the Gazette, and in the manner specified in such Order:—

15

Health  sector

(a)

(b)

20

require  maintenance  or  construction  of  suitable
establishments  for  the  purposes  of  quarantining
persons;

requisition any premises, other than premises used
for  the  purposes  of  dwelling  or  for  any  lawful
occupation  specified  in  section  10  of  this  Act,  for
the purposes of providing health care to persons, or
for use as a suitable establishment for quarantining
persons or things;

25

(c)

requisition  any  privately-owned  hospital  or  other
premises used for the purposes of providing health
care to persons;

(d)

temporarily  recruit  workers  to  be  deployed  in
hospitals and other premises used for the purposes
of providing health care to persons:

30

8

Public Health Emergency

Provided  that  such  requisition  or  temporary
recruitment  shall  have  effect  only  for  the  period
specified in such Order, and where such period shall
not  extend  beyond  the  period  of  a  public  health
emergency.

(2)  Any  person  suffering  loss  as  a  direct  result  of  a
requisition  under  subsection  (1)(c)  shall  be  entitled  to
compensation of such sum as may be duly determined to be
necessary to restore the premises to their condition or status
prior to such requisition.

(3)  The  Director  General  of  Health  Services  or  his
authorised  representative  shall  be  permitted  to  enter  any
premises used for the purposes of providing health care to
persons, or of any lawful occupation specified in section 10
of this Act, or of quarantining persons, in order to inspect
the premises.

(4)  Pursuant  to  an  inspection  conducted  in  terms  of
subsection (3), any person may be required to submit himself
for medical examination and for quarantining thereafter if a
health  inspector  forms  the  reasonable  opinion  that  such
person may be infected by the contagious disease specified
in terms of section 5 of this Act.

5

10

15

20

12.

(1) The Minister may, on the written advice of the
Director General of Health Services, by Order published in
the Gazette:—

25

Ports  and
Transport

(a) prohibit or restrict movement or transport of persons
through ports, airports and other points of entry for a
period not exceeding fourteen days:

30

Provided that such prohibition or restriction shall
not apply to the movement or transport of goods, or
any persons engaged in the business or occupation
of transporting goods;

Public Health Emergency

9

(b) impose duties on masters, pilots, train managers and
other persons on board conveyances and on owners
and managers of ports, airports and other points of
entry;

5

(c) require persons at ports, airports and other points of
entry  to  provide  information  or  answer  questions,
including information or questions relating to their
health.

10

(2) Any Order issued under subsection (1) shall forthwith
be communicated to Parliament, which may by Resolution
revoke such Order.

(3) Parliament may by Resolution extend an Order issued
under  subsection  (1)  for  a  further  period  not  exceeding
fourteen  days,  and  may  by  similar  Resolutions  thereafter
extend such Order for further periods not exceeding fourteen
days.

15

13.

(1) Any designated person may, for the sole purpose
of preventing the spread of a disease specified in a Resolution
adopted under section 2 of this Act, reasonably require:—

quarantining
etc.

20

(a) that  a  person  or  thing  be  kept  in  isolation  or

quarantine in a suitable establishment;

(b) that a person submit to medical examination;

(c) that  a  person  be  removed  to  a  hospital  or  other

suitable  establishment;

25

(d) that  a  person  be  detained  in  a  hospital  or  other

suitable  establishment;

(e) that  a  person,  thing,  or  premises  be  disinfected  or

decontaminated;

(f) that a person wear protective clothing;

10

Public Health Emergency

(g) that a person provide information or answer questions
about the person’s health or other circumstances;

(h) that a person’s health be monitored and the results

reported;

5

(i) that  a  person  attend  trainig  or  advice  sessions  on
how to reduce the risk of infecting or contaminating
others;

(j) that a person be subject to restrictions on where the
person goes or with whom the person has contact;

10

(k) that a person abstain from working or trading;

(l) that a thing be seized or retained;

(m) in the case of a dead body, that the body be buried or

cremated;

(n) in  any  other  case,  that  a  thing  be  destroyed  or

15

disposed  of;

(o) that premises be closed;

(p) that, in the case of a conveyance or movable structure,

the conveyance or structure be detained;

(q) that,  in  the  case  of  a  building,  conveyance  or

20

structure, the premises be destroyed.

(2)  Any  person  who  without  reasonable  cause  fails  to
comply with a direction under subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence, and shall, on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding Ten
Thousand rupees.

25

Public Health Emergency

11

(3) The Minister may by Order published in the Gazette
specify the minimum standards that suitable establishments,
used  for  the  purposes  of  quarantining  persons  and  things,
must comply with.

5

10

14.

(1) The Minister in charge of the subject of Social
Welfare shall, on the advice of the Council established under
section 6 of this Act, and by Order published in the Gazette,
provide that all reasonable measures be taken to ensure the
provision, free of charge or for a nominal cost, of such goods
and services specified in section 10 of this Act to persons
who are unable to access such services owing to destitution
during the period of a public health emergency.

Special
assistance

15

20

(2) The Minister shall present to the Council a weekly

report of all provisions made under subsection (1).

15.

(1)  The  Minister  may  by  Order  published  in  the
Gazette  require  the  temporary  closure  of  any  educational
premises, and such direction shall remain valid for a period
specified in such Order, provided that such period shall not
extend beyond the period of a public health emergency.

Educational
premises

(2) Any  person  responsible  for  the  management  or
administration  of  any  educational  premises  shall  comply
with  an  Order  issued  under  subsection  (1)  and  shall  take
reasonable steps to ensure that persons do not attend such
premises for the period specified in such Order.

25

30

(3) The Minister may by Order published in the Gazette
direct any school within the meaning of Educational Premises
to provide lessons to students through contemporaneous or
near contemporaneous audio-visual linkage during a period
specified in such Order, and which period shall not extend
beyond the period of a public health emergency.

(4) Any school specified in such Order under subsection
(3) shall be provided with  necessary technical, infrastructural
and monetary resources as may be required to comply with
such Order.

12

Public Health Emergency

16. Parliament  may  by  Resolution  declare  certain
industries and sector that employ large numbers of workers
to  be  ‘protected    industries’  or  ‘protected  sectors’  for  the
purpose of receiving special monetary assistance solely to
ensure that persons employed in such industries are retained
in  employment  during  the  period  of  a  public  health
emergency.

5

Labour

17. Any  Order  issued  under  this  Act  shall  be  made
available to the public on the official website of Parliament
and the Department of Government Printers.

10

Publishing
Orders

15

20

25

30

18. Any person who maliciously disclose the identity
of  a  person  who  is  infected,  or  had  been  infected,  or  is
suspected  of  being  infected  with  the  contagious  disease
specified under section 5 of this Act shall be guilty of an
offence, and shall, on conviction after summary trail before
a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding Fifty Thousand
rupees.

Disclosing
the  identity
of  a  patient

19. The  provisions  of  this  Act  shall  have  effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other written
law,  and  accordingly  in  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  or
conflict between the provisions of this Act and such other
written law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

Provisions  of
this  Act  to
prevail  over
other  written
laws

20.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

Interpretation

“designated person” means any law enforcement official,
or other person specified by any Order issued under
this Act;

“Educational premises” means–

(a)

(b)

a  goverment  school,  assisted  school,  or
unaided  school  within  the  meaning  of  the
Education Ordinance, No. 31 of 1939;

an  institution  within  the  further  education
sector,  within  the  meaning  of  the  Higher
Education Act, No. 20 of 1966;

Public Health Emergency

13

(c)

a provider of education or training within the
meaning  of  the  Teritary  And  Vocational
Education Act, No. 20 of 1990;

5

“suitable  establishment”  means  any  premises  that  may
be reasonably repurposed for the provision of health
services to persons, or for any other purpose directly
relevant  to  the  detection  or  containment  of  a
contagious disease specified under section 5 of this
Act.  

10

21.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

14

Public Health Emergency

Department  of  Government  Printing

