THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of May 03, 2024

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 08.05.2024)

J.  C.  ALAWATHUWELA  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Hector Appuhamy, M.P.
for Puttlam District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation (Incorporation)

1

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE J. C. ALAWATHUWELA
FOUNDATION

WHEREAS  a    Centre  called  and  known  as  the  “J.  C.
Alawathuwela  Foundation”  has  heretofore  been  formed  in
Sri  Lanka  for  the  purpose  of  effectually  carrying  out  and
transacting  all  objects  and  matters  connected  with  the  said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by the members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such  application:

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1.  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  J.  C.  Alawathuwela

Short  title

Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2024.

Incorporation
of  the  J.  C.
Alawathuwela
Foundation

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “J. C.
Alawathuwela  Foundation”  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the corporation hereby constituted shall be a Corporation with
perpetual  succession  under  the  name  and  style  of
“J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued and
have full power and  authority to have and use a common seal
and alter the same at its pleasure.

5

10

15

20

25

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Coporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be:–

General
objects  of  the
corporation

( a)

to  promote  ethics  and  culture,  create  necessary
resources and maintain.

2

J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation (Incorporation)

(b)

to  promote  peace,goodwill,  understanding  and
cooperation among all communities and people of
Sri Lanka;

(c)

to laise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions which have similar objects.

5

4.  (1) The of the affairs of the Corporation shall, subject
to the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for
the  time  being  of  the  corporation  be  administered  by  a
Committee  of  Management  consisting  of  Chairman,
Secretary, Treasurer  elected in accordance with such rules.

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the
Corporation

(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Honourable
Member J. C. Alawathuwela shall be the Chairman of the
Board of Directors for life thereafter, the family members of
the  person  who  was  holding  office  as  the  Chairman  shall
become the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.

(3) The first Committee of Management shall consist of
the members of the Governors board holding office on the
day  immediately  preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of
this Act.

5. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  any  other
written  law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform  and  execute  all  such  acts,  matters  and  things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation any one of
them, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise moneys with or without security to receive or collect
or  accept  grants  and  donations  to  invest  its  funds  to  the
Corporation and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.

General
Powers  of  the
Corporation

10

15

20

25

30

J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation (Incorporation)

3

6. (1) It shall be  lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time,  at  any  General  Meeting  of  the  members  and  by  a
majority of not less than two thirds of the members present
to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law, on all or any of the following
matters:-

Rules  of  the
Corporation

(a)

(b)

(c)

the classification of members, and the admission,
withdrawal, expulsion of members;

the election of office bearers, the resignation from,
vacation of or removal from office bearers and their
powers, conduct and duties;

the election of the members of the Committees of
the Management and its powers, conduct duties and
duration of term of office;

5

10

15

(d)

the  powers,  conduct,  duties  and  functions  of  the
various officers, agents and servants of Corporation;

(e)

the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and  holding  of  meetings  of  the  Committee  of
Management  and  of  the  time,  places,  notices  and
agenda of such meetings, the quorum thereof and
the conduct of business thereof;

20

(f)

the administrations and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and

25

(g)

the management of the affairs of the Corporation,
and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

5

10

15

20

25

4

J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation (Incorporation)

(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to

the rules of the Corporation.

7. All  debts  and  liabilities  of  the  Corporation  on  the
day  preceding the date of commencement of this act, shall
be paid and discharge by the Corporation hereby constituted
and all debts due to,  subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Corporation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purposes of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Corporation

8.

(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
monyes  heretofore  or  hereafter  to  be  received  by  way  of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants  for  and  on  account  of  the  Corporation  shall  be
deposited to the credit of the Body Corporate in one or more
banks as the Committee of Management shall determine.

Fund  of  the
Corporation

(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and function under this Act.

9.    Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall  be  able  and  capable  in  law  to  acquire  and  hold  any
property, movable and immovable which may become vested
in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, lease, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to
the  rules  of  the  Corporation  made  under  section  06,  with
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose
of  the same.

10.

If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Corporation  there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be  given  or  transferred  to  some  other  institution  or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and  which,  is  or  are  by  its  or  their  rules    prohibited  from
distributing any income or property among their members.

30

35

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation (Incorporation)

5

11.

(1) The financial year of the corporation shall be the

calendar year.

(2)  The  Corporation  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to  be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.

5

Audit  and
accounts  of
the
Coporation

(3)  The  accounts  of  the  Corporation  shall  be  audited
annually  by  the  Auditor  General  or  qualified  auditor
appointed by the Auditor General in the terms of Article 154
of the Constitution.

10

(4)  For  the  purpose  of  this  section  “qualified  auditor”

means–

15

20

25

(a) An individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or  any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute; or

(b) A firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka,  or  any  other  institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as  an  Accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
Institute.

12. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any  instrument  whatsoever  except  in  the  presence  of  two
members of the Committee of Management, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any person
as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation

30

13. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic, or
corporate or of any other persons.

Saving  of  the
Rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

6

J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation (Incorporation)

14.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistancy

J. C. Alawathuwela Foundation (Incorporation)

7

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

