PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

ANTI-CORRUPTION ACT,  No.  9  OF  2023

[Certified on 08th of  August, 2023]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 11, 2023

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 234.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

1

[Certified on 08th of August, 2023]

L.D.–O. 61/2018

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE UNITED NATIONS
CONVENTION AGAINST CORRUPTION AND OTHER INTERNATIONALLY
RECOGNIZED NORMS, STANDARDS, AND BEST PRACTICES; TO PROVIDE
FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN INDEPENDENT COMMISSION TO DETECT
AND INVESTIGATE ALLEGATIONS OF BRIBERY, CORRUPTION AND
OFFENCES RELATED TO THE DECLARATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
AND ASSOCIATED OFFENCES, AND TO DIRECT THE INSTITUTION OF AND
INSTITUTE PROSECUTIONS FOR OFFENCES OF BRIBERY, CORRUPTION
AND OFFENCES RELATED TO THE DECLARATION OF ASSETS AND
LIABILITIES AND OTHER ASSOCIATED OFFENCES; TO PROMOTE AND
ADVANCE THE PREVENTION OF CORRUPT PRACTICES; TO EDUCATE AND
RAISE AWARENESS AMONGST THE PUBLIC TO COMBAT CORRUPTION; TO
REPEAL THE BRIBERY ACT (CHAPTER 26), THE COMMISSION TO
INVESTIGATE ALLEGATIONS OF BRIBERY OR CORRUPTION ACT,
NO. 19 OF 1994 AND THE DECLARATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
LAW NO. 1 OF 1975 AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Anti-Corruption Act,

No. 9  of 2023.

Short  title  and
date  of
operation

(2) The provisions of this Act other than this section, shall
come  into  operation  on  such  date  as  the  Minister  may  by
Order published in the Gazette appoint:

Provided however, every provision of this Act shall come
into operation not later than eighteen months from the date
of coming into operation of this section.

(3) The provisions of this section shall come into operation
on the date on which the certificate of the Speaker is endorsed
thereon in respect of this Act in terms of Article 79 of the
Constitution.

2

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Objects  of  the
Act

2.

(1) The objects of this Act shall be to-

(a) prevent  and  eradicate  bribery  and  corruption
in  order  to  meet  the  just  requirements  of  the
general welfare of a democratic society;

(b) enhance transparency in governance;

(c) strengthen integrity of governance and increase

accountability;

(d) enhance public confidence in the Government
and strengthen public participation to eradicate
corruption;

(e) establish  an  Independent  Commission,  to
exercise and perform the powers and functions
under  this  Act  and  to  carry  out  the
responsibilities imposed thereon under this Act;

(f) mandate  the  said  Commission  to  conduct
preliminary  inquiries  and  investigations  into,
and  to  prosecute  against,  bribery,  corruption,
offences  relating  to  declaration  of  assets  and
liabilities and associated offences;

(g) to conduct and coordinate educational activities

on the prevention of bribery and corruption;

(h) introduce an effective system for the declaration
of assets and liabilities in order to prevent illicit
enrichment by public officials;

(i) promote  inter-agency  cooperation  and
international  collaboration  in  preventing
bribery and corruption; and

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

3

(j) give  effect  to  obligations  under  the  United
Nations Convention against corruption and any
other International Convention relating to the
prevention of corruption to which Sri Lanka is
a  party  and  recognize  international  standards
and best practices in order to establish a culture
of integrity in Sri Lanka.

(2) For the purposes of this section, “governance” includes
systems  and  processes  that  are  designed  to  ensure
accountability, transparency, responsiveness, rule of law and
stability.

PART  I

CHAPTER I

ESTABLISHEMT OF THE COMMISSION

3.

(1) There shall be established, for the purposes of this
Act, a Commission which shall be called and known as the
Commission  to  Investigate  Allegations  of  Bribery  or
Corruption (hereinafter referred to as the “Commission”).

(2) The Commission shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.

(3) The Commission shall have powers specified in this
Act for the accomplishment of the objects of this Act and for
the exercise of powers and performance of functions and carry
out the responsibilities conferred on it under this Act.

(4) The Commission shall exersice and perform its powers
and functions without being subject to any direction or other
interference proceeding from any other person except a court
or  tribunal  entitled  under  law  to  direct  or  supervise  the
Commission in the exercise or performance of such powers
or functions.

Establishment  of
the  Commission
to  Investigate
Allegations  of
Bribery  or
Corruption

4

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(5) Every person who, without legal authority, interferes
or attempts to interfere with the exercise or performance of
the powers or functions of the Commission as referred to in
subsection  (4)  of  this  section  shall  be  guilty  of  an  offence
punishable by the High Court on conviction after trail without
a  jury  with  imprisonment  of  either  description  for  a  term
which may extend to a period of one year or with fine or with
both such imprisonment and fine and may, in addition-

(a) be  disqualified  for  a  period  not  exceeding  seven
years from the date of such conviction from being
an elector and from voting-

(i)

at a referendum;

(ii)

at  any  election  of  the  President  of  the
Republic;  or

(iii)

at  any  election  of  a  Member  of  Parliament,
Provincial  Council or any local authority; or

(b) be  disqualified  from  holding  any  public  office  or

from being employed as a public officer.

Composition  of
the  Commission

4.

(1) The Commission shall consist of three members
appointed  by  the  President  on  the  recommendation  of  the
Constitutional Council from among the following:-

(a) a person who has expertise, reached eminence and
has at least twenty years of experience in law; and

(b) two persons who have expertise, reached eminence
and have at least twenty years of experience in one
or more of the following fields:-

(i) investigation of crime and law enforcement;

(ii) forensic  auditing;

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

5

(iii) forensic  accounting;

(iv) engineering;

(v) international  relations  and  diplomatic

services;

(vi) management of public affairs; or

(vii) public  administration.

(2) Every member of the Commission shall-

(a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(b) be not more than sixty two years of age as at
the date of appointment to the Commission;

(c) be physically and mentally fit;

(d) be competent, honest, of high moral integrity,

and of good repute;

(e) have relinquished all other remunerated offices
before  being  appointed  as  a  member  of  the
Commission:

Provided  however,  a  person  holding  any
remunerated  office  may  be  considered  for
appointment as a member of the Commission
if  such  person  relinquishes  all  remunerated
offices  prior  to  assuming  office  as  such
member;

(f) not carrying on any business or pursuing any
profession  while  being  a  member  of  the
Commission; and

(g) declare  his  assets  and  liabilities  to  the
Constitutional  Council  according  to  the
prevailing written laws before assuming office
as such member.

Disqualifications
from  being  a
member  of  the
Commission

6

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3)  One  of  the  members  of  the  Commission  shall  be
appointed  by  the  President  on  the  recommendation  of  the
Constitutional  Council  to  be  the  Chairman  of  the
Commission.

5. A Person shall be disqualified from being appointed,
or continuing as a member of the Commission, if such person–

(a) has been convicted of a criminal offence other than

an offence punishable with only a fine;

(b) is  adjudged  an  insolvent  by  a  court  of  competent

jurisdiction;

(c) is  or  becomes  of  unsound  mind  or  incapable  of

carrying out his duties under the Act;

(d) is guilty of serious misconduct in relation to such

person’s duties;

(e) fails  to  comply  with  his  obligations  under  the

provisions of this Act;

(f) is,  or  has  been  an  elected  representative  to  any

political office; or

(g) holds  or  has  held  any  post  or  membership  in  any
political  party  recognized  for  the  purposes  of
presidential  elections,  parliamentary  elections,
provincial  council  elections,  or  any  local
government  elections  conducted  under  the
provisions of respective laws applicable therefor.

Removal  of  a
member  of  the
Commission

6.

(1) A member of the Commission shall not be removed
from office except by an Order of the President made after an
address  of  Parliament  on  a  resolution  for  such  an  address,
supported by a majority of the total number of Members of
Parliament (including those not present) has been presented

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

7

for  such  removal  on  the  ground  of  proved  misconduct  or
physical, mental or other incapacity of a permanent nature or
a disqualification under section 5 of this Act:

Provided that no resolution for the presentation of such
an address shall be entertained by the Speaker or placed on
the Order Paper of Parliament, unless notice of such resolution
is signed by not less than one-third of the total number of
Members of Parliament and sets out full particulars of the
alleged misconduct or incapacity.

(2) The procedure for the presentation and passing of an
address  of  Parliament  for  the  removal  of  a  Judge  of  the
Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal specified in paragraph
(3) of Article 107 shall mutatis mutandis shall apply in all
respects  to  the  presentation  and  passing  of  an  address  of
Parliament for the removal of a member of the Commission.

7.

(1) A member of the Commission may at any time
resign from his office by a letter addressed to the President in
that  behalf  and  such  resignation  shall  take  effect  upon  it
being accepted by the President in writing.

Resignation  of  a
member  of  the
Commission

(2)  The  President  shall  on  the  recommendation  of  the
Constitutional  Council  appoint  a  new  member  in  place  of
the member who resigned, within two weeks of the resignation
of such member.

8.

(1) Every member of the Commission shall, unless
such member earlier vacates office by death, resignation or
removal, hold office for a period of three years and shall not
be eligible for reappointment:

Term  of  office
of  the  members
of  the
Commission

Provided however, the members of the First Commission
appointed under the provisions of this Act shall hold office
from the date of appointment in the following manner:-

8

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(a) the Chairman shall hold office for a period of five

years;

(b) one other Commissioner other than the Chairman
shall hold office for a period of four years; and

(c) the remaining Commissioner shall hold office for a

period of three years.

(2) Where a vacancy arises in the office of a member of the
Commission  due  to  the  expiration  of  his  period  of  office,
such member shall continue in such office until a new member
is  appointed  in  his  place  by  the  President  on  the
recommedation  of  the  Constitutional  Council  within  three
months of the occurring of such vacancy.

Remuneration  of
the  members  of
the  Commission

9. The remunerations of the members of the Commission

shall be-

(a) determined by Parliament; and

(b) charged on the Consolidated Fund and shall not be

diminished during their terms of office.

Members  of  the
Commission  to
disclose  any
interest

10.

(1) A member of the Commission shall submit to the
Constitutional Council, a general disclosure of his interests
as at the date of such appointment before assuming office as
such member.

(2)  A  member  of  the  Commission  who  is  directly  or
indirectly interested in any matter that is to be taken up before
the Commission shall disclose the nature of such interest to
the Commission and shall not take part in any deliberation
or decision of the Commission with regard to that matter.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

9

11. No act or decision or proceeding of the Commission
shall  be  invalidated  by  reason  only  of  the  existence  of  a
vacancy  among  the  members  or  of  any  defect  in  the
appointment of a member thereof.

Acts  not
invalidated  by
reason  of  a
vacancy

12.

(1)  The  seal  of  the  Commission  shall  be  in  the

custody of the Chairman of the Commission.

Seal  of  the
Commission

(2) The seal of the Commission may be altered in such

manner as may be determined by the Commission.

(3) The seal of the Commission shall not be affixed to any
instrument or document except in the presence of a member
of  the  Commission  and  the  Director-General  of  the
Commission or in the absence of the Director-General, in the
presence of any two members of the Commission, who shall
sign the instrument in token of their presence.

13. The Commission shall be responsible and answerable
to  Parliament  for  the  discharge  of  its  functions  under  the
provisions of this Act and shall forward to Parliament in each
calendar  year  reports  relating  to  its  activities  during  such
year, in accordance with the provisions of section 159 of this
Act.

Commission  to
be  answerable  to
Parliament

14.

(1) The quorum of the Commission to exercise its
powers  and  discharge  its  functions  under  section  41  and
subsection (1) of section 65 shall be two members.

Quorum  of  the
Commission

(2) The quorum of the Commission to exercise any power
or discharge any function under this Act other than the powers
and functions specified under section 41 and subsection (1)
of section 65, shall be three members and in the event of any
disagreement, the majority decision shall prevail.

10

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Code  of  Conduct

15.

(1) The members of the Commission, the Director-
General and the Staff of the Commission shall be subject to
the  Code  of  Conduct  of  the  Commission.  The  Code  of
Conduct shall be as prescribed by regulations.

(2) Any officer, or employee of the Commission or any
other person whose services are retained under section 27,
who is found to be in breach of any provision or provisions
of such Code, shall be subject to the procedure to be specified
by rules made by the Commission under this Act.

Responsibilities
of  the
Commission

16.

(1) The Commission shall take reasonable steps to
prevent corruption by the members of its staff in relation to
their office by emphasizing and enforcing rules and providing
appropriate education or training relating thereto.

(2) Any member of the Commission, the Director-General,
employee or any person whose services are retained under
section 27 who is directly or indirectly compelled to act by
any  person  in  an  unlawful,  improper  or  unethical  manner
which  involves  maladministration,  or  which  is  otherwise
inconsistent with the Code of Conduct of the Commission
shall  make  a  complaint  in  that  respect  according  to  the
procedure specified by the Commission.

(3)  The  Commission  shall  ensure  that  no  prejudice  is
caused  to  any  person  who  makes  a  complaint  under
subsection (2).

CHAPTER  II

DIRECTOR-GENERAL AND THE STAFF OF THE COMMISSION

Appointment  of
the  Director-
General

17.

(1) The President shall on the recommendation of
the Constitutional Council and after consulting the members
of the Commission appoint a Director-General (hereinafter

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

11

in  this  Act  referred  to  as  the  “Director-General”)  to  the
Commission to discharge the powers, perform the duties and
carry out the functions assigned to him under this Act.

(2) The Director-General shall submit to the Constitutional
Council, a general disclosure of his interests as at the date of
his appointment, before assuming office as Director-General.

(3)  The  Director-General  who  is  directly  or  indirectly
having any interest in any matter that is to be taken up before
the Commission shall disclose the nature of such interest and
shall  not  take  part  in  any  deliberation  or  decision  of  the
Commission with regard to that matter, unless the Commission
decides otherwise:

Provided that, this will not impede the responsibility of
the Director-General to sign indictments on the direction of
the members of the Commission.

18. The Director-General shall–

(a) institute criminal proceeding on an indictment
or  a  charge  sheet  on  the  direction  of  the
Commission;

(b) be  the  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  the

Commission;

(c) be  the  Chief  Accounting  Officer  of  the

Commission; and

(d) carry  out  all  such  other  duties  and  functions
necessary to achieve the objects of this Act.

Powers  and
Functions  of  the
Director-General

(1)  The  person  appointed  as  the  Director-General

19.
shall–

(a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

Qualifications
and
disqualifications
to  be  appointed
as  the  Director-
General

12

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b) be physically and mentally fit;

(c) be  an  Attorney-at-Law  with  at  least  fifteen  years
experience  and  sound  knowledge  in  criminal
prosecutions;

(d) be not more than fifty-five years of age as at the date

of  appointment;

(e) be competent, of high moral integrity, and of good

repute;

(f) have  relinquished  all  other  remunerated  offices
before assuming office as the Director-General:

Provided  however,  a  person  holding  any
remunerated  office  may  be  considered  for
appointment as the Director-General if such person
relinquishes  all  remunerated  offices  prior  to
assuming office as Director-General; and

(g) have  declared  his  assets  and  liabilities  under  the
prevailing written law before assuming office as the
Director- General:

Provided  however,  that  the  provisions  of
paragraph (f), shall not prevent the appointment of
any  public  officer  in  the  Government  Service  on
secondment as the Director-General.

(2) A Person shall be disqualified from being appointed,

or continuing as the Director-General if such person–

(a) has been convicted of a criminal offence other than

any offence punishable with only a fine;

(b) is  adjudged  an  insolvent  by  a  court  of  competent

jurisdiction;

(c) is  or  becomes  of  unsound  mind  or  incapable  of

carrying out his duties under the Act;

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

13

(d) is guilty of serious misconduct in relation to such

person’s duties;

(e) fails  to  comply  with  his  obligations  under  the

provisions of this Act;

(f) is,  or  has  been,  an  elected  representative  to  any

political office; or

(g) holds  or  has  held  any  post  or  membership  in  any
political  party  recognized  for  the  purposes  of
presidential  elections,  parliamentary  elections,
provincial  council  elections,  or  any  local
government  elections  conducted  under  the
provisions of respective laws applicable therefor.

20. The Director-General may resign from his office at
any time by letter in that behalf addressed to the President.

21. The  President  may,  in  consultation  with  the
Commission, on any one or more grounds for disqualificaion
set out in subsection (2) of section 19 or where the conduct of
the Director-General negatively impacts on the exercise of
the powers and functions of the Commission and after giving
the Director-General an opportunity to be heard in person or
by a duly appointed representative, remove him from office,
subject to the approval of the Constitutional Council.

Resignation  of
the  Director-
General  from
office

Removal  of  the
Director-General

22. Where the office of the Director-General becomes
vacant due to the death, resignation or removal as the case
may  be,  the  President  shall  appoint  another  person  for  the
post  of  Director-General  within  three  months  having  due
regard to the provisions of section 17.

Death,
resignation  or
removal  of  the
Director-General

23.

(1)  The  Director-General  shall,  unless  he  earlier
vacates office by death, resignation or removal, hold office
for  a  period  of  five  years  and  shall  not  be  eligible  for
reappointment.

Term  of  office
of  the  Director-
General

14

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2)  The  Director-General  on  vacating  office  at  the
expiration of the period of office shall continue to function
in  his  capacity  as  Director-General  until  a  new  Director-
General is appointed.

(3)

The President shall on the recommendation of the
Constitutional  Council  appoint  a  new  Director-General,
within three months of such expiration.

Remuneration  of
the  Director-
General

24. The remuneration of the Director-General shall be
determined  by  Parliament,  shall  be  charged  on  the
Consolidated  Fund  and  shall  not  be  diminished  during  his
period of service with the Commission.

Director-General
may  delegate
powers

25.

(1) The Director-General may delegate to any other
competent officer appointed under the provisions of this Act
to assist the Commission any power, function, or duty of the
Director-General except the power of delegation conferred
on him by this section and the powers and functions under
paragraphs (a) and (c) of section 18 and such other officer
may exercise those powers and perform such functions and
discharge such duties subject to the control and supervision
of the Director- General.

(2) In the event the office of the Director –General becomes
vacant due to death, resignation, removal or dismissal, the
powers, functions, or duties of the Director-General shall be
delegated  to  any  other  competent  officer  appointed  under
the provisions of this Act to assist the Commission by the
President in Consultation with the Commission until a new
appointment is made within three months of such vacancy
under section 22.

Officers  and
employees  of  the
Commission

26.

(1) The Commission may subject to the rules made
under this Act appoint such other officers and employees as
it  may  deem  necessary  for  the  efficient  discharge  of  its
functions.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

15

(2)  The  officers  and  employees  appointed  under
subsection (1) shall be remunerated in such manner and at
such rates and shall be subject to such conditions of service
as  may  be  determined  by  the  Commission  in  consultation
with  the  Minister  assigned  the  subject  of  Finance  and
approved by Parliament and the remuneration paid to them
shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.

(3)  The  persons  whose  services  are  retained  under
section 27 shall be remunerated in such manner and at such
rates  and  shall  be  subject  to  such  conditions  of  service  as
may be determined by the Commission and the remuneration
shall be charged on the Fund of the Commission.

(4) At the request of the Commission any member of the
Local  Government  Service  constituted  under  Local
Government Service Law, No. 16 of 1974 or any other officer
or official of a local authority, may, with the consent of such
member  or  officer  and  the  Local  Government  Service
Commission  established  by  section  3  of  the  Local
Government  Service  Law,  No.  16  of  1974  ,  or  the  local
authority, as the case may be, be temporarily appointed to
the  staff  of  the  Commission  for  such  period  as  may  be
determined  by  the  Commission  with  like  consent  or  be
permanently  appointed  to  such  staff  on  such  terms  and
conditions including those relating to pension or provident
fund rights as may be agreed upon by the Commission and
the  Local  Government  Service  Commission  or  that  local
authority as the case may be.

(5) At the request of the Commission any officer in the
public service may, with the consent of such officer and the
Public Service Commission and the appointing authority of
such officer be temporarily appointed to the Commission for
such period as may be determined by the Commission with
like consent, or be permanently appointed to such staff.

16

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(6) Where any officer in the Public Service is temporally
appointed to the staff of the Commission, the provisions of
subsection  (2)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission  Act,  No.  37  of  1991,  shall  mutatis  mutandis
apply to and in relation to such officer.

(7) Where any officer in the Public Service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Commission, the provisions of
subsection  (3)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission  Act,  No.  37  of  1991,  shall  mutatis  mutandis
apply to and in relation to such officer.

(8)  At  the  request  of  the  Commission  any  officer  or
employee of a public corporation may, with the consent of
such officer or employee and the governing board of such
corporation,  be  temporarily  appointed  to  the  staff  of  the
Commission for such period as may be determined by the
Commission with like consent or be permanently appointed
to the staff of the Commission on such terms and conditions,
including those relating to pension or provident fund rights,
as may be agreed upon by the Commission and the governing
board of such corporation.

(9) At the request of the Commission any member of the
Sri Lanka State Audit Service established under section 30
of  the  National  Audit  Act,  No.  19  of  2018,  may  with  the
consent of such member and the Audit Service Commission
be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Commission for
such period as may be determined by the Commission with
like consent or be permanently appointed to the staff of the
Commission on such terms and conditions, including those
relating to pension or provident fund rights, as may be agreed
upon by the Commission and the Audit Service Commission.

Commission  to
obtain  services
of  other
personnel

  27. The Commission may obtain the services of such
other  officers  and  employees  on  fixed-term  contracts  as  it
considers necessary for the proper and effective performance
of its powers and functions.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

17

28.

(1) Any member of the Commission, the Director-
General or any officer or employee of the Commission or any
other  person  whose  services  are  retained  under  section  27
shall not disclose any information received by him, or coming
to  his  knowledge,  in  the  exercise  and  the  discharge  of  his
powers and functions under this Act, except for the purpose
of  giving  effect  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  or  where
provision has been made under this Act to share information.

(2)  Every  member  of  the  Commission,  the  Director-
General and every officer or employee of the Commission or
any other person whose services are retained under section 27
shall,  before  entering  upon  the  duties  of  his  office,  sign  a
declaration  to  the  effect  that  he  will  not  disclose  any
information received by him, or coming to his knowledge, in
the exercise and the discharge of his powers and functions
under this Act, except for the purpose of giving effect to the
provisions of this Act.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
Director-General  may,  subject  to  the  provisions  of
subsection (1) of section 5 of the Right to Information Act,
No. 12 of 2016 and with the permission of the Commission,
disclose  such  information  as  the  Commission  considers
necessary  in  the  public  interest,  for  the  purposes  of
publication in the press, media and social media with a view
of  enhancing  the  transparency  and  accountability  of  the
Commission towards the public.

29.  (1)  The  members  of  the  Commission,  the
Director-General  and  officers  and  employees  of  the
Commission and any other person whose services are retained
under section 27 shall be deemed to be public servants within
the  meaning  of  the  Penal  Code  (Chapter  19)  and  every
investigation conducted under this Act shall be deemed to
be  a  judicial  proceeding  within  the  meaning  of  the
Penal Code (Chapter 19).

Declaration  to  be
signed  before
entering  upon
duties

Members  of  the
Commission,  etc.
deemed  to  be
public  servants

Protection  for
actions

18

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2)  The  Director-General  and  every  officer  of  the
Commission shall be deemed to be peace officers within the
meaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of
1979.

30. 

(1)  No  proceedings,  civil  or  criminal,  shall  be
instituted against a member of the Commission, the Director-
General or any officer or employee of the Commission, or
any other person whose services are retained under section 27
or against any other person assisting the Commission in any
way, other than for contempt, for any act which is done or
omitted to be done, in good faith by him in his capacity as
such member of the Commission, Director-General, officer or
employee of the Commission, a person whose services are
retained  under  section  27  or  a  person  assisting  the
Commission,  in the execution of their duties.

(2) A member of the Commission or the Director-General
or any officer or employee of the Commission or any person
whose  services  are    retained  under  section  27  shall  not  be
required to produce in any court, any document received by,
or to disclose to any court, any matter or thing, coming to the
notice of the Commission in the course of any investigation
conducted by the Commission under this Act, except as may
be necessary for the purposes of proceedings before a court
of law for contempt or for an offence under this Act or for an
offence under Chapter XI of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

(3) No proceedings, civil or criminal, shall be instituted in
any court against any member of the Commission in respect
of  any  report  made  by  the  Commission  under  this  Act  or
against  any  other  person  in  respect  of  the  publication  by
such person of a substantially true account of such report.

CHAPTER  III

FINANCE

31.

(1)  (a)  The  Commission  shall  prepare  the  annual
budget  estimates  of  the  Commission  within  the  period  as
specified by the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

The  Commission
to  submit  annual
budget  estimates
for  the
incorporation  in
the  national
budget

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

19

(b) The said estimates shall be submitted to the Speaker
on  such  date  as  may  be  decided  by  the  Speaker  after
consultation with the said Minister assigned the subject of
Finance  and  the  Commission.  The  Speaker  shall  table  the
said  estimates  in  Parliament  for  its  review  with  the
observations of the Minister assigned the subject of Finance,
who shall provide his observations to the Speaker within ten
working days from its receipt of such annual budget estimates
from the Speaker. The Parliament shall after having reviewed
the annual budget estimates of the Commission forward the
estimates to the Minister assigned the subject of Finance for
the  incorporation  in  the  national  budget  with  such
modifications, if any, as Parliament thinks fit.

(2)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution  and
notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), all expenses
for inquaries, investigations and prosecutions on any offence
conducted  by  the  Commission  shall  be  charged  on  the
Consolidated  Fund.

(3) The Commission shall have its own Fund.

(4) There shall be paid into the Fund–

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted upon
from time to time by Parliament for the use of
the Commission;

(b) all such sums of money as may be received by
the  Commission  by  way  of  donations,  gifts,
bequests, or grants from any source whatsoever,
whether within or outside Sri Lanka, subject to
the  approval  of  the  Minister  assigned  the
subject of Finance;

(c) all  such  sums  of  money  as  are  ordered  to  be
paid as administrative fines to the Fund under
section 90 of this Act;

(d) all such sums of money as may be ordered to be
paid  as  compensation  to  the  Fund  under  the
provisions of section 131 of this Act; and

20

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(e) all such sums of money proceeding from the sale
of  property  received  by  the  Commission  or
confiscated by the Commission in terms of this
Act.

(5) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of
money  required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Commission in the exercise, discharge and performance of
its powers and functions.

(6) Where any money is received by way of donations,
gifts, bequests or grants under paragraph (b) of subsection
(4), the source and purpose for which such donation, grant,
bequests  or  gift  was  made  available  shall  be  made  public
within one month of such receipt.

CHAPTER  IV

POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION

Appointment,
promotion,  etc.
of  the  officers
etc.  of  the
Commission

32. (1) The appointment, promotion, disciplinary control
and  dismissal  of  the  officers  and  employees  of  the
Commission shall be vested in the Commission and shall be
carried  out  in  the  manner  as  may  be  specified  by  the
Commission by rules made in that behalf.

(2)  The  Commission  shall  make  rules  in  relation  to  the
officers other employees of the Commission including their
appointments,  promotions,  remunerations,  disciplinary
control, dismissal, conduct and the grant of leave.

Central
Authority  on
declarations  of
assets  and
liabilities

33. The  Commission  shall  act  as  the  central  authority
on declarations of assets and liabilities under Part II of this
Act and for such purpose shall exercise the powers, discharge
the duties and perform the functions of the Central Authority
under this Act.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

21

 34. (1) The Commission shall take all possible measures
to  give  effect  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  Against
Corruption  and  any  other  international  obligations  which
Sri Lanka has undertaken to prevent corruption.

Implementation
of  International
Conventions,
agreements,
obligations  etc.

(2) The Director-General shall be the competent Authority
in Sri Lanka for the purpose of giving effect to the United
Nations  Convention  Against  Corruption  and  any  other
International  Conventions  relating  to  the  prevention  of
corruption to which Sri Lanka is a party.

35. The Commission shall take all possible measures to
enhance  the  awareness  of  the  public  and  disseminate
information to the public on detrimental effects of corrupt
conduct  and  enlist  and  foster  public  support  in  combating
any such corrupt conduct.

Commission  to
enhance  public
awareness  on
corrupt  conduct

36. The  Commission  shall  have  the  power  to  monitor
and  coordinate  the  implementation  of  effective,  anti-
corruption policies and practices of the Government.

37. The Commission shall have the power to examine
the laws, practices, and procedures of any public authority in
order to discover acts of corruption and methods of work or
procedures  which,  in  its  opinion,  may  be  conducive  to
corruption.

Monitoring  the
implementation
of  anti-
corruption
policies

Examination  of
laws,  etc  to
discover  acts  of
corruption

38. The Commission shall have the power to advise and
assist any public authority on ways and means in which acts
of  corruption  may  be  eliminated  and  how  to  promote  the
integrity and good repute of public administration.

Advice  and
provide
assistance  to
public  bodies

39.  (1) The Commission may make recommendations to
the Government for future legislative reforms as it considers
necessary  to  minimize  corruption  and  the  adoption  and
ratification  of  international  instruments  relating  to
anti-corruption.

Provide
recommendations
to  the
Government  for
legislative
reforms  to
minimize
corruption  etc

Measures  to
prevent
corruption  and
proper  discharge
of  its  functions
etc.

22

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) The Commission shall promote active participation of
civil  society,  non-governmental  and  community  based
organizations,  in  the  prevention  of  and  the  fight  against
corruption to raise public awareness regarding the existence
of, causes and gravity of and threats posed by corruption.

40. The Commission may, for the achieving of the objects

of this Act-

(a) liaise  with  any  public  authority  to  facilitate  the
promotion of the principles of the rule of law, proper
management of public affairs and public property,
integrity,  transparency  and  accountability;

(b) liaise with the Government to review the relevant
institutional,  legal  and  procedural  provisions  to
implement  a  coherent  and  coordinated
anti-corruption  strategy;

(c) advise  heads  of  Government  Departments  or  of
public  authorities,  of  changes  in  practices  or
procedures compatible with the effective discharge
of  the  duties  of  such  Departments  or  public
authorities which the Commission thinks necessary
to reduce the likelihood of the occurrence of corrupt
practices;

(d) monitor the implementation of such anti-corruption
measures by public authorities and may require such
public authorities to report to it on its implementation
status;

(e) provide consultation, guidance, and advice to any
institution public or private, on prevention strategies
or measures to eradicate corruption;

(f) instruct,  advice  and  assist  any  person  on  ways  in
which corruption may be eliminated by such person;

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

23

(g) to  introduce  codes  of  conduct  for  prevention  and
eradication  of  bribery  and  corruption  which  shall
be adhered to by the private sector entities in order
to  develop  proper  conduct  of  business  for  the
promotion of good commercial practices;

(h) to  introduce  codes  of  conduct  for  prevention  and
eradication of bribery and corruption in the public
sector  which  shall  be  adhered  to  in  the  public
administration;

(i) take  measures  to  prevent  corruption  in  the
contractual relations between the Government and
private sector entities;

(j) take  measures  to  enlist  and  foster  public  support

against  corruption;  and

(k) recruit interns and apprentices as the Commission
may consider necessary for the effective discharge
of  its  powers,  duties  and  funtions  subject  to  such
conditions of service as may be determined by the
Commission; and

Investigations

41. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  the
Commission shall hold a preliminary inquiry or conduct an
investigation, as the case may be, regarding the allegations
contained in any information or complaint made to it or any
material  received  by  it  under  section  42  where  any  such
allegations or any material received discloses the commission
of-

(a) an offence under Part II, and  Chapter I and Chapter
II  of  Part  III  of  this  Act  other  than  any  offence
specified in Schedule A to this Act;

24

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b) an  offence  under  the  Prevention  of  Money
Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006 when the unlawful
activity within the meaning of that Act is committed
in  the  same  transaction  together  with  an  offence
under the provisions of this Act;

(c) an offence specified in Schedule A to this Act where
such  offence  has  been  committed  in  the  same
transaction together with an act which constitutes
an offence in terms of this Act; or

(d) an offence specified in Schedule B to this Act, where
such offence has been committed in connection with
an offence in terms of this Act,

and  direct  the  Director-General  to  institute  proceedings
against  such  person  in  respect  of  such  offence  in  the
appropriate court.

42.

(1) The Commission may commence the conduct of

a preliminary inquiry–

(a) upon receipt of any information;

(b) upon receipt of a complaint;

(c) ex mero motu by the Commission; or

(d) based  on  any  other  material  received  by  the

Commission,

in relation to the commission of any act which may disclose
the commission of an offence referred to in section 41.

(2) The purpose of conducting a preliminary inquiry shall
be  to  determine  whether  there  exist  reasonable  grounds  to
believe that an offence under the provisions of this Act has
been committed.

Preliminary
inquiry,
investigation,
and  other
measures

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

25

(3)  After  the  conduct  of  a  preliminary  inquiry,  if  the
Commission  is  satisfied  that  an  offence  referred  to  in
section 41 has been committed,  the Commission shall direct
the Director-General to conduct an investigation:

Provided  that,  if  the  Commission  is  satisfied  that  there
exist  reasonable  grounds  to  believe  the  committing  of  an
offence  referred  to  in  section  41,  the  Commission  may
authorize the conduct of an investigation without the conduct
of a preliminary inquiry.

(4)  The  purpose  of  the  investigation  conducted  by  the

Commission under subsection (3) is to-

(a) determine whether an offence referred to in section

41 has been committed;

(b) identify and trace witnesses to the commission of
any  offence  referred  to  in  paragraph  (a)  and  any
other relevant facts;

(c) trace, interview, and record the statements of persons
who may be acquainted with facts and circumstances
pertaining to the committing of an offence referred
to in section 41;

(d) collect documents and material that has the potential
of  being  converted  into  evidence  in  criminal
proceedings;

(e) determine  the  identity  of  persons  who  have
committed an offence referred to in section 41;

(f) trace, arrest, interview, and record the statement of
any person who has committed an offence referred
to in section 41;

(g) determine whether to institute criminal proceedings
or take any other lawful action against any person,
for any offence referred to in section 41; or

26

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(h) take any other appropriate measure provided for in

this Act.

(5)  On  any  information  or  a  complaint  received  by  the
Commission, or if decided ex mero motu by the Commission,
or on any other material received by the Commission, if the
Commission is satisfied of the likelihood of an offence referred
to in section 41 being committed, it may take measures as
may be necessary to detect the committing of such offence
and make investigations thereto.

(6) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act
or  any  other  written  law,  where  the  Commission,  on  a
consideration  of  material  collected  in  the  course  of  an
investigation or inquiry or both an investigation and inquiry
as the case may be by a Commission of Inquiry appointed
under the Commissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393) or by a
Commission  appointed  under  the  Special  Presidential
Commissions of Inquiry Law, No. 7 of 1978, is satisfied that
an offence referred to in section 41 has been committed, it
shall  direct  the  Director-General  to  institute  criminal
proceedings  against  the  person  or  persons  alleged  to  have
committed such offence in terms of this Act.

(7)  The  Commission  may  prior  to  the  institution  of

proceedings under subsection (6), direct to-

(a) conduct further investigations into the commission

of any such offence;

(b) consider material that may have been collected in
the  course  of  an  investigation  conducted  by  the
Commission  prior  to  the  receipt  of  the  material
referred to in subsection (6); and

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

27

(c) consider  the  material  the  Commission  may  have
received from any other law enforcement authority.

(8) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act
or any other written law, the Commission may, if it deems
appropriate, forward the material collected and received under
subsections (1), (3), (5), (6) and (7) to the Attorney-General or
to any other authority to take any appropriate action under
any other written law.

(9) The Commission shall not be required, unless it deems
appropriate to, record a statement of a person who has given
a  statement  to  a  Commission  of  Inquiry  or  to  a  Special
Presidential  Commission  of  Inquiry  or  has  given  evidence
before any such Commission.

(10) The Commission shall have the power to investigate
any matter disclosed by a communication received by it under
subsection (1) whether or not such matter relates to a period
prior to the appointed date and notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in any other law.

(11) If the Commission decides not to act according to the
provisions of subsections (1), (3), (5) or (6) of this section,
reasons for such decision shall be recorded in writing and be
communicated by the Commission to the person who made
the  complaint.

43.

(1)  A  complaint  or  information  relating  to  the
commission of an offence referred to in section 41, may be
made against a person whether or not such person is holding,
on the date on which the complaint or information is received
by the Commission, the office or employment by virtue of
holding  which  he  is  alleged  to  have  committed  the  act
constituting an offence. Such complaint or information may
be  provided  to  the  Commission  orally,  in  writing  or  by
electronic  communication.

Complaints  of
offences

28

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) The complaint given orally shall be reduced to writing
in the language it was given, by any officer of the Commission
as directed by the Commission as soon as possible:

Provided that, if it is not possible for the officer to record
the complaint in the language in which it is given, the officer
shall request that the complaint be given in writing. If the
complainant is unable to give it in writing, the officer shall
record the complaint in one of the national languages after
recording  the  reasons  for  doing  so  and  shall  read  over  the
record to the complainant or interpret it in the language such
person understands.

(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, a public authority or a law enforcement authority,
where in the exercise of its functions is of the opinion that an
offence under the provisions of this Act may have occurred
or suspected to have committed, such public authority or the
law  enforcement  authority  shall  refer  the  matter  to  the
Commission for investigation.

Complainant
may  know
the  progress

44.

(1)  Any  person  who  has  made  a  complaint  under
section 43 shall be provided with an update of the basic steps
taken in relation to an investigation conducted under section
42  in  a  manner  which  does  not  hinder  the  progress  of  the
investigation.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) of section 5 of the
Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016 shall apply for any
information provided, shared or communicated as provided
for in this Act.

(3) Any person who has made a complaint under section
43  shall  be  provided  with  a  detailed  justification  by  the
Commission for the closure of a file, upon a request made on
that behalf by such person.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

29

45.

(1) If the Commission is satisfied–

Search  and
seizure

(a) that there is a reasonable ground for suspecting
that an offence referred to in section 41 has
been  committed  and  that  evidence  of  the
commission of the offence is to be found at
any  premises  or  in  any  vessel,  vehicle  or
aircraft or with any person; or

(b) that any book, account or other document or
thing  which  ought  to  have  been  produced
during an investigation conducted by it under
this Act and have not been so produced are to
be  found  at  such  premises  or  in  any  such
vehicle, vessel or aircraft or with any person,

 the Commission may by written order, authorize an officer
of the Commission to enter such premises or, such vehicle,
vessel or aircraft as the case may be and search such premises,
or such vehicle, vessel, aircraft or such person.

(2)  An  officer  authorized  by  the  Commission  under
subsection (1) may seize any article, which is found in the
premises or in the vehicle, vessel or aircraft or with the person
and  which  he  has  reasonable  grounds  for  believing  to  be
evidence of the commission of any offence under this Act, or
any  book,  account  or  document  or  thing  which  he  has
reasonable  grounds  for  believing,  ought  to  have  been
produced at an investigation conducted by the Commission
under  this  Act  and  every  such  article,  book,  account,
document or thing seized by such officer in pursuance of the
powers conferred on him by this section shall be produced
by him before the Commission:

Provided that, no female shall, in pursuance of a search

under this section, be searched except by a female.

30

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) Where, by virtue of this section a person has any power
to enter into any premises, vessel, vehicle or aircraft, he may
use such force as is reasonably necessary for the purpose of
exercising that power.

(4)  A  list  of  all  items  seized  pursuant  to  the  preceding
provisions of this section and of the places in which they are
respectively  found  shall  be  prepared  by  the  officer  of  the
Commission effecting the seizure and be signed by him.

(5) A copy of the list referred to in the above subsection
shall be served on the owner of such property or on the person
from whom the property was seized as soon as possible.

(6)  Where  any  movable  property  liable  to  seizure  as
stipulated above is in the possession, custody or control of a
bank, the provisions of subsections (2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) of
section 49 shall apply thereto.

(7) The Director-General or an officer authorized by the
Commission may with such assistance as may be necessary,
enter and search any department, office or establishment of
the Government to give effect to the provisions of this section.

(8) The Director-General or any officer of the Commission
may obtain the assistance of any public officer or any other
person authorized by the Commission for assistance in the
exercise of his powers or the discharge of his functions under
this Act.

(9)  Any  officer  authorized  under  subsection  (1)  shall
always carry the warrant card issued to such officer under
section 46 where any power under this section is exercised.

Issuance  of
warrant  cards

46. The Director-General shall issue to any officer of the
Commission  a  warrant  card  which  shall  be  prima  facie
evidence of the authorization granted to such officer under
section 45.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

31

47.

(1) Any authorized officer of the Commission may
without  an  order  from  a  Magistrate  and  without  a  warrant
arrest any person suspected of committing an offence under
the provisions of this Act if such person–

Arrest  of  persons
without  a
warrant  etc.

(a) in his presence commits any offence under this Act;

(b) has been concerned in any offence under this Act or
against whom a reasonable complaint has been made
or  credible  information  has  been  received  or  a
reasonable suspicion exists, of his having been so
concerned;

(c) obstructs an officer employed by the Commission
while in the execution of his duty or has escaped or
attempts to escape from lawful custody;

(d) is found taking precautions to conceal his presence
under circumstances which afford reason to believe
that  he  is  taking  such  precautions  with  a  view  to
committing an offence under this Act; or

(e) has been concerned in or against whom a reasonable
complaint  has  been  made  or  credible  information
has been received or a reasonable suspicion exists
of his having been concerned in any act committed
at any place out of Sri Lanka, which if committed in
Sri Lanka would have been punishable as an offence
under this Act and for which he is under any law for
the time being in force relating to extradition or to
fugitive  persons  or  otherwise,  liable  to  be
apprehended or detained in custody in Sri Lanka.

(2) In making an arrest under subsection (1), the officer
making the same shall actually touch or confine the body of
the person to be arrested unless there be a submission to the

32

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

custody by word or action and shall inform the person to be
arrested, of the nature of the charge or allegation upon which
he is arrested and the keeping of a person in confinement or
restraint  without  formally  arresting  him  or  under  the
colourable pretension that an arrest has not been made when
to all intents and purposes such person is in custody, shall be
deemed to be an arrest of such person.

(3) If such person forcibly resists the endeavour to arrest
him or attempts to evade the arrest, the officer making the
arrest  may  use  such  means  as  are  reasonably  necessary  to
effect the arrest.

(4) If the officer making the arrest has reasons to believe
that any person to be arrested has entered into or is within
any place, the person residing in or in charge of such place
shall on demand of such officer allow him free ingress therein
and afford all reasonable facilities for a search therein.

(5) If ingress to such place cannot be obtained under the
preceding  subsection  it  shall  be  lawful  in  any  case  for  the
officer acting under a warrant or in any case in which a warrant
may  issue  but  cannot  be  obtained  without  affording  the
person to be arrested an opportunity of escape, for the officer
to enter such place and search therein.

(6) The officer may break open any outer or inner door or
window of any place in order to liberate himself or any other
person  who,  having  lawfully  entered  for  the  purpose  of
making an arrest, is detained therein.

(7)  The  person  arrested  shall  not  be  subjected  to  more

restraint than is necessary to prevent his escape.

(8) Anything in this section shall not be held to interfere
with or modify the operation of any enactment empowering
an officer to arrest without a warrant.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

33

48. 

(1) An officer making an arrest without a warrant
shall without unnecessary delay and subject to the provisions
herein contained as to bail, take steps to produce the person
arrested before the nearest Magistrate.

Procedure  after
arrest

(2) Any officer shall not detain in custody or otherwise
confine a person arrested without a warrant for a longer period
than under all the circumstances of the case is reasonable,
and such period shall not exceed twenty-four hours exclusive
of the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest
to the Magistrate.

(3)  Where  a  person  arrested  was  produced  before  a
Magistrate other than the Magistrate who has the jurisdiction
in  the  case,  the  Magistrate  before  whom  the  person  was
produced shall, subject to section 149 and having considered
the circumstances of the investigation, order to produce the
person arrested before the Magistrate having jurisdiction in
the case forthwith.

(4) If a person in lawful custody escapes or is rescued, the
officer from whose custody he escaped or was rescued may
immediately pursue and arrest him in any place, either within
or outside the jurisdiction where he was so in custody, and
provision of section 47 shall apply to such arrest.

(5)  Where  any  currency  notes,  alleged  to  have  been
accepted,  solicited  or  offered  as  an  illegal  gratification  by
the person arrested are produced before the  Magistrate having
jurisdiction in the case together with a report under the hand
of the Director-General, stating that such notes were alleged
to have been so accepted, solicited or offered, the Magistrate
shall issue a certificate under his hand to the effect that the
notes  of  the  denominations  and  numbers  set  out  in  the
certificate were produced before him and such certificate shall
be  admissible  in  any  proceedings  instituted  against  the
person  alleged  to  have  accepted,  solicited  or  offered  such
notes, in lieu of producing such notes in such proceedings.

Examination  of
persons  when
conducting  an
investigation

34

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

49.

(1)  The  Commission  may,  in  conducting  an

investigation  under  section  42–

(a) procure  and  receive  all  such  evidence,  written  or
oral,  and  examine  all  such  persons  as  the
Commission  may  think  necessary  or  desirable  to
procure, receive or examine:

Provided, the Commission may video record the
examination of any person under the provisions of
this paragraph;

(b) require any person to attend before the Commission
for  the  purposes  of  being  examined  by  the
Commission  and  to  answer,  orally  on  oath  or
affirmation,  any  question  put  to  him  by  the
Commission  relevant,  in  the  opinion  of  the
Commission, to the matters under investigation or
require such person to state any facts relevant to the
matters  under  investigation  in  the  form  of  an
affidavit;

(c) summon  any  person  to  produce  any  document  or

other thing in his possession or control;

(d) direct by notice in writing  any bank, a non-banking
financial  institution,  or  designated  non-finance
business  to  produce,  within  such  time  as  may  be
specified  in  the  notice,  any  information  in
whatsoever form relating to the account of any person
in respect of whom any inquiry or investigation is
being conducted under section 42 or of any person
associated  with  such  person,  or  of  a  company  of
which such person is a director, or of a trust in which
such person has a beneficial interest or of a firm of
which such person is a partner, or to furnish as so
specified, certified copies of such information therein
which is in printable form;

(e) notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (d),
require any bank, non-banking financial institution,
or  designated  non-finance  business  to  provide
following  information  and  material  to  the

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

35

Commission  subject  to  the  provisions  of  the
Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006
and Financial Transactions Reporting Act, No. 6 of
2006, relating to–

(i) any financial service provided by such bank,

institution or business, to any person;

(ii) details of any financial transaction carried out

by any person;

(iii) details  of  any  bank  accounts,  deposits,
remittances,  and  withdrawals  and  financial
services  provided  by  any  such  bank,
institution  or  business;

(iv) details  in  respect  of  securing  of  financial

services by any person; and

(v) a certified statement of any account or other
details  pertaining  to  any  account  or
transaction;

(f) notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (d),
require from the following officers any information
or document which is in his possession or under his
control or a certified copy thereof or any entry therein
for the purpose of conducting an investigation under
the  provisions  of  this  Act  or  in  respect  of  an
associated offence referred to in this Act:-

(i)

the Secretary to any Ministry appointed under
Article 52 of the Constitution;

(ii) Secretary  General  of  the  Parliament  of  Sri
Lanka  appointed  under  Article  65  of  the
Constitution;

(iii) Commissioner  General  of  Inland  Revenue
appointed  under  section  97  of  the  Inland
Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;

36

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(iv) Governor of the Central Bank appointed under
section  12  of  the  Monetary  Law  Act
(Chapter 422);

(v) Auditor General appointed under Article 153

of  the  Constitution;

(vi) Head of the Department of Foreign Exchange
of  the  Central  Bank  appointed  under
section 33  of  the  Monetary  Law  Act
(Chapter 422);

(vii) Director  of  the  Financial  Intelligence  Unit
appointed  in  terms  of  the  Financial
Transactions Reporting Act, No. 6 of 2006;

(viii) Director-General  of  the  Securities  and
Exchange  Commission  of  Sri  Lanka
appointed under section 19 of the Securities
and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act,
No. 19 of 2021;

(ix) Director-General of Customs appointed under
section  2  of  the  Customs  Ordinance
(Chapter 235);

(x) Controller  of  Immigration  and  Emigration
appointed under section 4 of the Immigrants
and Emigrants Act (Chapter 351);

(xi) Commissioner General for the Registration of
Persons  appointed  under  section  3  of  the
Registration of Persons Act, No. 32 of 1968;

(xii) Controller of Imports and Exports appointed
under  section  2  of  the  Imports  and  Exports
(Control) Act, No. 1 of 1969;

(xiii) Registrar  General  of  Companies  appointed
under  section  47  of  the  Companies  Act,
No. 07 of 2007;

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

37

(xiv) Commissioner  of  Land  appointed  under
section 3 of the Land Development Ordinance
(Chapter 464);

(xv) Director-General  of  Intellectual  Property  of
Sri  Lanka  appointed  under  section  2  of  the
Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of the 2003;

(xvi) Commissioner  General  of  Motor  Traffic
appointed  under  section  204  of  the  Motor
Traffic Act, (Chapter 203);

(xvii) Director-General  of  Telecommunications
appointed under section 22B of the Sri Lanka
Telecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991;

(xviii) a  Head of any Government department, public
corporation,  statutory  body,  or  other
Government  institution;

(xix) Registrar – General of Lands appointed under
section  2  of  Registration  of  Documents
Ordinance (Chapter 117);

(xx) Chairman  of  a  Provincial  Council  or  a
Chairman or a Special Commissioner of a local
authority;

(xxi)

the Head of any scheduled institution under
this Act;

(g) direct  any  person  in  respect  of  whom  a
communication has been received under section 42
to furnish a sworn statement in writing-

(i)

setting  out  all  movable  or  immovable
property owned or possessed at any time, or at
such  time  as  may  be  specified  by  the
Commission, by such person and by any other

38

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

person  associated  with  such  person  and
specifying  the  date  on  which  each  of  the
properties so set out was acquired, whether by
way of purchase, gift, bequest, inheritance or
otherwise; and

(ii) containing  particulars  of  such  other  matters
which in the opinion of the Commission are
relevant  to  the  investigation;

(h) direct any person other than the persons specified
in paragraphs (f) and (g) above to furnish a sworn
statement in writing-

(i)

setting  out  all  movable  or  immovable
property owned or possessed at any time or at
such  time  as  may  be  specified  by  the
Commission,  by  such  person  where  the
Commission  has  reasonable  grounds  to
believe  that  such  information  can  assist  an
investigation  conducted  by  the  Commission
under section 42; and

(ii) containing  particulars  of  such  other  matters
which in the opinion of the Commission are
relevant  to  such  investigation:

Provided  that,  any  person  to  whom  the
Commission  issues  any  direction  under  this
subsection  shall  comply  with  such  direction,
notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  any
other law.

(2) Where the Commission is satisfied of any information
given  by  an  officer  of  the  Commission  that  any  movable
property, including any monetary instrument or any accretion

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

39

thereto, which is the subject matter of an offence under this
Act or evidence in relation to the commission of such offence,
is  in  the  possession,  custody  or  control  of  a  bank,  the
Commission  may,  notwithstanding  anything  contained  in
any other written law, by order direct the bank not to part
with, deal in, or otherwise dispose of such property or any
part thereof  for a period not exceeding three months.

(3) An order under subsection (2) may include freezing of
bank  accounts  or  freezing  of  other  financial  deposits  and
accounts  suspected  to  contain  proceeds  of  bribery  to  the
extent  of  the  proceeds  of  bribery  contained  therein,  under
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 53, subject to any
condition that may be imposed by rules made in that behalf
by the Commission.

(4) A bank or any agent or employee of a bank shall not,
on account of such compliance envisaged in subsection (2),
be liable to any prosecution under any other law or to any
proceeding or claim by any other person under any other law
or  under  any  contract,  agreement,  or  arrangement,  or
otherwise.

(5)  On  the  conclusion  of  any  investigation  conducted
under  this  Act,  the  Commission  may  award  to  any  person
who  has  been  in  any  way  implicated  or  concerned  in  the
matter  under  investigation  or  to  any  bank  whose  manager
has complied with a notice issued in connection with such
investigation by the Commission such sum of money as the
Commission may consider sufficient to meet the costs and
expenses which may have been reasonably incurred by such
person or bank in connection with the investigation.

(6) All moneys awarded under subsection (5) shall be paid

out of the Fund of the Commission.

40

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(7) Any person who appears before the Commission under
this section is bound to answer truly all questions relating to
such case put to him by the officers of the Commission other
than the questions which would have a tendency to expose
him to a criminal charge or to a penalty or forfeiture.

Obtaining  the
assistance  of
experts

50.

(1)  Where  the  Commission  considers  that  the
examination  of  any  person  by  the  Government  Analyst,  a
Government  Medical  Practitioner,  or  any  other  local  or
foreign expert is necessary for the conduct of an investigation,
the Commission may–

(a) summon the person to be examined with the consent
of  such  person,  to  be  subject  to  an  examination
conducted  by  the  Government  Analyst,  any  other
local or foreign expert having expertise in the field
in respect of which the investigation is conducted,
or a Government Medical Practitioner; and

(b) require  in  writing  from  any  expert  referred  to  in
paragraph (a) to provide a report on a matter referred
to him by the Commission.

(2) Where the person referred to in subsection (1) does not
consent to being so examined, the Commission may apply to
the Magistrate within whose jurisdiction the investigation is
being carried out for an order authorizing the expert named
therein to examine such person and report thereon. Where
such an order is made, the person referred to in subsection (1)
shall submit himself to an examination by such expert who
shall submit a report to the Magistrate setting out the result
of such examination.

Taking  of
finger
impressions,
photographs,
non-intimate
samples,  blood
samples  and
voice  samples
etc.

51. (1) Where a person has been arrested under section 47
or,  has  been  served  with  summons  under  section  49,  any
authorized officer of the Commission may take, or cause to
be taken blood samples, voice samples, photographs, finger,
palm  or  foot  impressions  or  impression  of  any  part  of  the
body and the weight and height measurements of that person.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

41

(2)  The  identifying  particulars  of  a  person  taken  under
subsection (1) may be retained by the Commission, except
that if-

(a) a  decision  is  taken  not  to  charge  the  person  with

any offence; or

(b) the person is charged with an offence under this Act
but  discharged  by  a  court  before  conviction  or
acquitted  at  his  trial  or  on  appeal,  the  identifying
particulars,  together  with  any  negatives  or  copies
thereof, shall as soon as reasonably practicable be
destroyed or, if the person so prefers, delivered to
the person.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2), the
Commission may retain the identifying particulars of a person
who has been previously convicted of any offence under this
Act.

(4) In any investigation in respect of an offence committed
or believed to have been committed under this Act, a non-
intimate  sample  may  be  taken  from  a  person  for  forensic
analysis only if-

(a) that person is dealt with and detained pursuant to

the provisions of this Act; and

(b) an officer not below the rank of a Deputy Director-
General  or  above  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“authorizing officer”) has authorized such taking.

(5) An authorizing officer may give his authorization as
required under paragraph (b) of subsection (4) only if he has
reasonable grounds-

(a) for suspecting that the person from whom the non-
intimate  sample  is  to  be  taken  has  committed  an
offence under this Act; and

42

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b) to believe that the sample will tend to confirm or

disprove the commission of such offence.

(6) An authorizing officer shall give his authorization in
writing  and  in  practical  difficulty,  may  give  such
authorization  orally  and  as  soon  as  possible  confirm  it  in
writing.

(7)  Where  an  authorization  has  been  given  under
subsection (5), officer who has been empowered with such
authorization  shall,  before  the  taking  of  such  non-intimate
sample, inform the person from whom the sample is to be
taken-

(a) of the nature of the offence in which the person is

suspected to have committed;

(b) that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
sample  will  tend  to  confirm  or  disaprove  the
commission of the offence by that person;

(c) of the authorization;

(d) that he may or may not consent to the taking of the

sample; and

(e) that the sample will be analyzed and the information
derived from such analysis may provide evidence
that might be used in criminal proceedings for such
offence or any other offence for which the person
may be arrested under this Act.

(8)  Where a person does not consent to the taking of a
blood sample, finger, palm or foot impression or an impression
of any part of the body under subsection (1) or the taking of
a non-intimate sample under subsection (4), the Commission
may apply to the Magistrate for an order for the taking of the
same from him.

(9)  The  person  from  whom  a  non-intimate  sample  was
taken under subsection (4) is entitled to be informed of the
results derived from the analysis of the sample.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

43

(10) Any consent given for the taking of a non-intimate
sample under this section shall be given in writing and signed
by the person giving the consent.

(11)  Where  an  order  under  subsection  (8)  is  made,  the
results shall be reported to the Magistrate by the Commission.

(12) A non-intimate sample from a person may only be

taken by a registered Medical Practitioner.

(13) The Minister shall make regulations in consultation
with the Commission on the privacy and the limitations on
the  use  of  non-intimate  samples  and  results  of  forensic
analysis and the disposal of relevant samples and records.

52.

(1) Every Magistrate to whom an application is made
under section 50, subsection (8) of section 51 or section 59
shall assist the conduct of an investigation by making and
issuing appropriate orders and processes of court and may, in
particular hold, or authorize the holding of, an identification
parade  for  the  purpose  of  ascertaining  the  identity  of  the
offender, and may for such purpose require a suspect or other
person  to  participate  in  such  parade,  to  enable  or  allow  a
witness to make his identification from a concealed position
and make or cause to be made a record of the proceedings of
such parade.

(2) Confidentiality in respect of any application made to
the Magistrate under subsection (1) shall be maintained and
the proceedings pertaining to the same shall be held in-camera
if requested by the Commission subject to such considerations
as may be necessary for the purposes of justice and not to
jeopardize  the  integrity  of  any  investigation  in  respect  of
which the assistance of the Magistrate is sought.

Obtaining  the
assistance  of
Magistrates

53.

(1) The Commission may–

Restraining
orders

(a) prohibit, by written order (hereinafter referred
to  as  the  ‘’freezing  order”),  any  person  in
respect of whom an inquiry or investigation
is  being  conducted  under  section  42,  the
spouse, other family member of such person

44

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

or any other person holding any property in
trust for such first-mentioned person, or any
bank or any non banking financial institution
or  designated  non  finance  business  in
possession, custody or control of any of his
movable property or a company of which he
is a director or a firm in which he is a partner,
from parting with, dealing with or otherwise
disposing of such property or any part thereof,
from  transferring  the  ownership  of,  or  any
interest  in,  any  movable  or  immovable
property  specified  in  such  order,  until  such
time such order is revoked by the Commission
and to cause a copy of the freezing order to be
served  on  any  such  authority  as  the
Commission may think fit, including–

(i) the  Registrar  of  Lands  where  the
immovable  property  is  situated  in  the
case of an immovable property;

(ii) the  Commissioner  of  Motor  Traffic
appointed  under  section  204  of  the
Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203) in the
case of a motor vehicle; and

(iii) the  Registrar-General  of  Companies
appointed  under  section  471  of  the
Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 and the
Secretary of such company in the case
of shares, stocks or debentures of any
company;

(b) require,  by  written  order,  any  authority  on
whom a copy of the freezing order made under
paragraph (a) has been served, to cause such
copy to be registered or filed in any register or
record maintained by such authority;

(c) require  by  written  order  the  Controller  of
Immigration and Emigration appointed under
section  4  of  the  Immigrants  and  Emigrants
Act  (Chapter  351)  to  impound  the  passport
and other travel documents or to take all such

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

45

steps  as  may  be  necessary  to  prevent  the
departure  from  Sri  Lanka  of  any  person  in
respect of whom an information or a compliant
or a communication has been received under
section 42 for such period not exceeding three
months, as may be specified in such written
order; and

(d) require by written order, any police officer as
shall  be  specified  in  that  order,  whether  by
name  or  by  office,  to  take  all  such  steps  as
may  be  necessary  to  prevent  the  departure
from  Sri  Lanka  of  any  person  in  respect  of
whom any information or compliant has been
received under section 42 for such period not
exceeding three months, as may be specified
in such order.

(2) The Commission shall, within seven days during which
such freezing order shall be in force, make an application to
the High Court seeking confirmation of such freezing order
and  also  if  the  circumstances  so  necessitate,  request  an
extension of the original period of seven days.

(3)  Where  the  High  Court  is  satisfied  that  there  are
sufficient reasons for the making of such freezing order, the
High Court may confirm the freezing order and also where an
application  is  made  for  the  extension  thereof,  grant  the
extension for such periods as it considers necessary, subject
however –

(a) to any other orders which may be made by the High

Court; and

(b) to the requirement that the maximum period of any
extension so granted shall not exceed one year from
the date of the obtaining of the freezing order by the
Commission:

Provided that, where an indictment is filed for an
offence under this Act, the freezing order shall unless
vacated by the High Court for reasons to be recorded,
remain in force until the conclusion of the trial in

46

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

respect  of  such  offence,  or  where  an  appeal  is
preferred against a conviction for such offence, until
the determination of the appeal.

(4) Where the High Court confirms a freezing order under
subsection  (3),  it  shall  cause  a  notice  of  such  order  to  be
published in at least one newspaper circulating in the Sinhala,
Tamil and English languages, in order to facilitate bona fide
third parties to make application to the High Court in support
of their claims to the account, property or investment which
is subject to the order of freezing.

(5) Where any movable property is seized under this Act,
the  seizure  shall  be  effected  by  removing  the  movable
property from the possession, custody or control of the person
from whom it is seized and placing it under the custody of
such  person  or  authority  and  at  such  place  as  may  be
determined by the Commission:

Provided however, where it appears to the satisfaction of
the Commission that it is not practicable, or is not desirable,
to  effect  removal  of  any  property  under  this  subsection,
the Commission may leave it at the premises in which it is
seized  under  the  custody  of  an  authorized  officer  of  the
Commission.

(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (5), when
any  movable  property,  including  any  movable  property
referred to in subsection (10), has been seized under this Act,
an authorized officer of the Commission other than the officer
who effected the seizure, may-

(a) temporarily return the movable property to the owner
thereof,  or  to  the  person  from  whose  possession,
custody or control it was seized, or to such person as
may be entitled thereto, subject to such terms and
conditions as may be imposed, and subject in any
case to sufficient security being furnished to ensure
that the movable property shall be surrendered on
the  demand  being  made  by  the  officer  who
authorized  the  release  and  that  such  terms  and
conditions, if any, shall be complied with; or

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

47

(b) return the movable property to the owner thereof, or
to  the  person  from  whose  possession,  custody  or
control it was seized, or to such person as may be
entitled thereto, with liberty for the person to whom
the  movable  property  is  so  returned  to  dispose  of
the property, such return being subject to security
being furnished in an amount not less than an amount
which  represents  the  open  market  value  of  such
property on the date on which it is so returned.

(7)  Where  any  person  to  whom  movable  property  is
temporarily  returned  fails  to  surrender  such  property  on
demand or comply with any term or condition imposed under
that paragraph,-

(a) the  security  furnished  in  respect  of  such  property

shall be forfeited; and

(b) that person shall commit an offence punishable with
imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years
or a fine not exceeding one million rupees.

(8) Where an order of forfeiture of security is made by the
court in respect of property temporarily returned as specified
in subsection (7), such forfeiture shall be effected by forfeiting
the security furnished by the person to whom the property
was returned.

(9)  When  any  movable  property  seized  under  this  Act
consists of money, shares, securities, stocks, debentures or
any choose-in-action in the possession or under the custody
or control of any person other than the person against whom
the prosecution is intended to be taken, the seizure shall be
effected by an authorized officer of the Commission serving
an order on such other person–

(a) prohibiting him from using, transferring, or dealing

with such property; or

(b) requiring  him  to  surrender  the  property  to  the
Commission  in  the  manner  and  within  the  time
specified in the order.

48

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(10) Where any movable property seized or freezed is liable
to  speedy  decay  or  deterioration,  or  cannot  be  maintained
without difficulty, or is not practicable to be maintained, and
cannot be dealt with under subsection (6), upon an application
made in that regard by the Director-General or any officer
authorized  by  the  Commission,  the  High  Court  may  make
order to sell or cause to be sold the property and to hold the
proceeds of the sale in the manner as may be determined by
such Court:

Provided  that  the  High  Court  may  order  to  deduct  any
cost or expense of the maintenance and sale of property from
the proceeds of any proceedings under this Act.

(11) A transaction shall not be effected in relation to any
account, property or investment where a freezing order is in
force and any transaction which is so effected shall be null
and  void.

(12) Before making a freezing order under this section,
the High Court may on an application made in that behalf, if
the  High  Court  is  of  the  opinion  that  such  an  order  may
damage the legitimate business or any other interest of any
person affected by such freezing order, make order permitting
any essential transaction relating to such account, property
or investment to be carried out subject to such supervision
and  under  the  direction  of  an  officer  authorized  by  the
Commission as may be directed by such court.

54. Where the Commission is satisfied that any property
is the subject matter of an offence under this Act or was used
in the commission of any such offence, and such property is
held or deposited outside Sri Lanka, the Commission may
make an application to the High Court for an order prohibiting
the person by whom the property is held or with whom it is
deposited from dealing with the property.

Prohibition  of
dealing  with
property  outside
Sri  Lanka

Special
investigation
techniques

55.

(1) The Commission may, in an investigation under
section  42  of  this  Act,  use  any  investigation  technique
including  the  following:-

(a) authorize  a  person  who  has  reported  to  the
Commission of a demand for a bribe, to directly or
indirectly, give or receive it as demanded;

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

49

(b) surveillance  and  observation;

(c) undercover  operations;

(d) video  recording;

(e) using bugging devices; or

(f) controlled  deleveries:

Provided  that,  the  Commission  shall  specify  by  way  of
rules, the procedures to be followed on the use of investigative
techniques under this section.

(2) The Commission shall ex parte obtain an order from
the High Court for the purposes of paragraphs (d) and (e) of
subsection (1). Confidentiality in respect of any application
made  to  the  High  Court  shall  be  maintained  and  the
proceedings pertaining to the same shall be held in-camera.

56. The Commission shall by way of rules specify the
criteria  for  the  protection  and  preservation  of  information
received or collected by the Commission by way of a data
message,  electronic  document,  electronic  record  or  other
communication in electronic form.

Protection  and
preservation  of
information

57. The  Commission  may 

any
telecommunication, satellite, digital service or data service
provider, to provide–

require 

Obtaining
information
from  service
providers

(a) information pertaining to services provided or being

provided by such service provider to any person;

(b) information pertaining to services enjoyed by any
person  to  whom  such  services  have  been  made
available;

(c) any  information,  data  or  document  or  record  that
may be stored, archived or otherwise kept, by such
service provider; and

Interception  of
communication

50

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(d) information  pertaining  to  the  uploading  or
downloading of data or information, to or from any
instrument  through  the  service  provided  by  such
service provider,

where in the  opinion of the Commission such information
may  be  of  use  in  the  investigations  conducted  on  any  act
which may amount to an offence under this Act.

58.

(1) An authorized officer of the Commission may
apply in writing to the High Court for a warrant authorizing
the covert monitoring of any conduct and recording of any
communication  if  such  officer  has  reasonable  grounds  to
suspect or believe that a person has committed, is committing
or is about to commit an offence under this Act.

(2)  A  High  Court  Judge  may,  upon  receiving  a  written
application under subsection (1), issue a warrant after being
satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for such suspicion
or belief to authorize the covert monitoring and recording,
by any means, of the conduct and communications, including
telecommunications, of the person. Confidentiality in respect
of any application made to the High Court shall be maintained
and the proceedings pertaining to the same shall be held ex
parte and in-camera.

(3) A warrant issued under this section may be renewed by
further  application  made  in  that  behalf  by  the  authorized
officer.

(4) A warrant issued under this section may authorize any

officer-

(a) to overtly or covertly enter or, in the case of a renewed
warrant, re-enter any place specified in the warrant,
by force if necessary, for the purpose of executing
the warrant; and

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

51

(b) in  the  case  of  a  renewed  warrant,  to  continue
monitoring and recording pursuant to the original
warrant.

(5) If the circumstances are such that a written application
under  subsection  (1)  is  not  reasonably  practicable,  an  oral
application may be made.

(6) The format of the application shall be as specified by

the Commission by way of rules.

(7) The Commission shall ensure that any recording made
under the provisions of this Act shall be used solely for the
purposes of this Act.

59. Director-General may, for the purpose of–

(a) determining the identity of a person who has

committed an offence;

(b) determining the location of a person who has

committed an offence;

(c) facilitating  the  conduct  of  an  investigation

into an offence;

(d) gathering evidence against a person who has

committed an offence;

(e) determining whether one or more persons are
conspiring, planning, preparing or attempting
to commit an offence; or

(f) taking  measures  to  prevent  the  commission

of an offence,

under this Act,   make an application to a Magistrate
to authorize the Commission to-

Unlocking  of
data  and
information

Assistance  in
investigations

52

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(i) direct any person who provides locking
or encryption services pertaining to any
communication  or  storage  services  or
equipment  of  any  data  or  information
or other thing, to unlock or unencrypt
the  service  or  equipment  and  provide
information  contained  therein;

(ii) intercept,  read,  listen  or  record  any
postal message or electronic mail or any
telephone,  voice,  internet,  or  video
conversation,  or  video  conference  or
any communication through any other
medium; or

(iii) access any analogue or digital data or
information, of any exchange or transfer
system.

60.

(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other written law, the Commission may, if satisfied that there
are  reasonable  grounds  for  suspecting  that  an  offence
consisting of soliciting, accepting or offering by any person
a gratification which or the value of which does not exceed
ten thousand rupees has been committed under this Act by a
person other than a police officer, the Commission may require
any  police  officer  of  or  above  the  rank  of  an  Assistant
Superintendent of Police named in such order or an authorized
officer  to  conduct    an  investigation  in  the  matter  in  such
manner or mode as may be specified in that order. The order
may authorize the investigation of any bank account, share
account,  purchase  account,  expense  account  or  any  other
account, or any safe deposit box in any bank, and shall be
sufficient authority for the disclosure or production by any
person of all or any information or accounts or documents or
articles as may be required by the officer so authorized.

(2)  The  Director-General  upon  the  direction  of  the
Commission  may  provide  advice,  give  directions,  or  take
over at any stage any investigation which has commenced
under this section in respect of any offence and to conduct
and direct such investigation.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

53

(3)  Upon  the  conclusion  of  the  investigation  under  this
section, the police officer from whom the Commission has
requested an investigation under subsection (1) of this section
shall submit a report to the Commission in writing on such
investigation and such report shall include –

(a)

a full statement of the circumstances relating to the
matter;

(b)

copies of the statements of all witnesses; and

(c)

such other information, documents, or productions
as may be relevant or as may be called for by the
Commission.

(4) The outcome of an investigation concluded under this
section  shall  forthwith  be  forwarded  to  the  Commission
enabling the Commission to take steps under section 65.

61.

(1)  If  the  circumstances  of  the  case  so  justify,  a
joint investigation team may be formed for a specific  period
by  an  agreement  between  the  Commission  and  any  other
investigative authority in Sri Lanka as may be determined
by  the  Commission  for  the  purpose  of  conducting  an
investigation into an alleged offence referred to in      section
41.

(2) The Commission may also establish joint investigation
teams in relation to the following, where a request has been
made by a foreign State:-

(a) matters  falling  under  bilateral  or  multilateral
agreements or arrangements to which Sri Lanka and
the other foreign State are parties; or

(b)

in the absence of such agreements or arrangements,
on a case-by-case basis.

Joint
investigations

54

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) A Joint investigation team under the provisions of this

section may be established when-

(a)

any  person  or  body  of  persons  assigned  with  the
duties of investigation, law enforcement, regulatory
tasks,  prosecutions  and  involving  in  judicial
proceedings  on  the  same  subject  matter,  which
requires coordinated and harmonized actions by the
agencies  or  States  involved  in  the  investigation;
and

(b)

for  the  purposes  of  subsection  (2),  investigative
actions have to be carried out in Sri Lanka and the
other foreign State simultaneously.

(4) Information obtained during joint investigations may
be used by competent courts, where the persons who were
been investigated are tried in such courts.

Revealing  and
sharing  of
information

62.

(1)  The  Commission,  the  Director-General  or  any
other officer or employee of the Commission or any person
whose  services  are  retained  under  section  27  shall  not  be
compelled to reveal the source of any information received
under the provisions of this Act.

(2) The Commission may share information relevant to
any investigation with any local law enforcement authority
or  any  other  Government  authority  or  any  other  law
enforcement  authority  as  provided  under  international
bilateral  or  multilateral  agreements  or  arrangements,  or  in
the absence of such agreements or arrangements on a case-
by-case basis for the purposes of investigation, prosecution
and judicial proceedings under the law of the foreign State.

International
cooperation

63.

(1) The Commission may –

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

55

(a)

(b)

communicate with criminal investigative authorities
or law enforcement authorities in foreign States on
a same or connected matter when giving effect to
the provisions of this Act; and

share any report or information with any institution
or agency of a foreign State or of an international
organization or body of persons or other institution
or agency established by the Government of a foreign
State that has powers and duties similar to those of
the Commission, on such terms and conditions as
are set out in any agreement or arrangement between
the Commission and such institutions, agencies or
bodies of persons regarding the exchange of such
information  under  an  agreement  or  arrangement
entered into under subsection (2).

(2)  The  Commission  may,  enter  into  any  agreement  or

arrangement, in writing, with—

(a)

an  institution  or  agency  of  a  foreign  State  or  an
international  organization  or  body  of  persons
established by the governments of a foreign State
that has powers and duties similar to those of the
Commission; or

(b)

a foreign law enforcement agency,

regarding  the  exchange  of  information  between  the
Commission and such institution, agency or authority.

(3)  The  information  communicated,  or  shared  under
subsection  (1)  or  exchanged  under  an  agreement  or
arrangement entered into under subsection (2) shall be any
information that the Commission, the institution, agency or
authority  has  reasonable  grounds  to  suspect  would  be

56

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

relevant  to  the  investigation,  prosecution  or  judicial
proceedings of an offence of corruption covered by United
Nations Convention Against Corruption or an offence that is
substantially similar to such an offence.

(4)  Agreements  or  arrangements  entered  into  under

subsection (2) by the Commission shall —

(a)

include  restrictions  on  the  use  of  information  or
judicial proceedings obtained for purposes relevant
to  investigating,  prosecuting  into  any  act
constituting  an  offence  or  corruption  covered  by
United Nations Convention Against Corruption or
an  offence  that  is  substantially  similar  to  such
offence; and

(b)

include a provision to the effect that the information
exchanged be treated in a confidential manner and
not  to  be  further  disclosed  without  the  express
consent of the Commission.

Summons

64. (1) Every summon issued by the Commission shall
be  in  writing  and  in  duplicate  and  signed  by  the  Director-
General and shall be in the form specified by rules.

(2) The summons shall be served -

(a) by registered post;

(b) by express post;

(c) by  a  Grama  Niladhari  as  may  be  directed  by  the

Commission;

(d)

in  the  case  of  a  company  or  corporation  or
incorporated  association  of  persons,  on  the

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

57

managing director, secretary or other like officer or
the  person  in  charge  of  the  principal  place  of
business  of  such  company,  corporation  or
association;

(e)

in the case of a person who is a public officer or an
employee  of  a  public  corporation,  on  the  head  of
the  institution  in  which  such  person  is  a  public
officer or an employee;

(f)

in the case of any person who is employed under
any other person, on the employer of such person; or

(g) by email or facsimile if available.

(3)  When  the  person  to  be  summoned  cannot  by  the
exercise  of  due  diligence  be  found,  the  summons  may  be
served  by  leaving  one  of  the  duplicates  with  some  adult
member of such person’s family or with such other person
residing with such person.

(4) If the service specified in subsections (2) and (3) cannot,
by the exercise of due diligence be effected, the Commission
shall  affix  one  of  the  duplicates  of  the  summons  in  some
conspicuous part of the house, place or premises in which the
person  summoned  ordinarily  resides  and  in  such  case  the
summons shall be deemed to have been duly served.

(5)  Where  any  summons  is  sent  by  registered  post  or
express  post,  the  production  of  the  receipt  issued  by  the
relevant post office for such summons shall be prima facie
proof  of  the  fact  that  such  summons  was  received  by  the
addressee unless such summons is returned undelivered.

(6) Every person on whom a summon is served shall attend
before  the  Commission  at  the  time  and  place  mentioned
therein  and  shall  answer  any  question  put  to  him  by  the
Commission and produce such document or other thing as
are required of him by the summon.

Prosecutions

58

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

65.

(1) Where the material received by the Commission
in the course of an investigation conducted by it under this
Act,  discloses  the  commission  of  an  offence  under  the
provisions of this Act by any person, the Commission shall
direct the Director-General to institute criminal proceedings
against such person in the appropriate court.

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written  law,  the  Director-General  in  accordance  with
subsection (1) of this section shall have the power to institute
proceedings in the Magistrate’s Court through a charge sheet
signed by the Director-General and section 136 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall not apply for
the purposes of this section.

(3) The provisions of section 162 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Code Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall mutatis mutandis
apply in respect of any charge sheet signed by the Director-
General.

(4) Upon proceedings being instituted through a charge

sheet under subsection (2), the Magistrate shall –

(a)

(b)

cause the accused to appear, or to be brought, before
him;

cause a copy of the charge sheet with its annexures
to be served on each of the accused who shall be
tried upon that charge sheet;

(c)

inform the accused of the date of the trial;

(d) where the accused is brought or appears before the
court,  read  and  explain  the  charge  to  the  accused
and shall be asked whether he is guilty or not guilty
of the offence charged;

(e)

if  the  accused  pleads  guilty  and  it  appears  to  the
satisfaction  of  the  Magistrate  that  he  rightly

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

59

comprehends the effect of his plea, record a verdict
of guilty and pass sentence upon him according to
the provisions of the relevant law and record such
sentence;  and

(f)

if the accused does not make any plea or if he pleads
not  guilty,  he  shall  be  tried  and  the  provisions  of
the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979
shall mutatis mutandis apply to the proceedings in
the Magistrate Court.

(5) Where proceedings are instituted in a High Court in
pursuance  of  a  direction  made  by  the  Commission  under
subsection  (1)  by  an  indictment  signed  by  the  Director-
General, such High Court shall on receipt of such indictment,
have  jurisdiction  to  try  the  offence  described  in  such
indictment  in  all  respects  as  if  such  indictment  were  an
indictment presented by the Attorney-General to such court.

(6) There shall be annexed to every such indictment, in
addition to the documents which are required by the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 to be annexed thereto,
a copy of the statements, if any, made before the Commission
by the accused and by every person intended to be called as
a witness by the prosecution.

(7) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, an officer of the Commission authorized by the
Commission,  the  Attorney-General  upon  request  of  the
Commission  or  any  other  Attorney-at-Law  specially
authorized by the Commission shall be entitled to–

(a)

conduct the prosecution at a trial of an offence held-

(i)

in  the  Magistrate  Court  on  a  charge  sheet;
and

(ii)

in  the  High  Court  on  an  indictment,  signed
by the Director-General; or

60

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b)

appear  on  behalf  of  the  Commission  in  any  other
litigation  which  may  have  a  bearing  on  the
Commission:

Provided that, where the Commission has requested the
Attorney-General  to  conduct  the  prosecution  or  appear  on
behalf  of  the  Commission  in  any  other  litigation,  in  the
absence of the Attorney-General, an officer of the Commission
authorized  by  the  Commission  is  entitled  to  conduct  such
prosecution or appear on behalf of the Commission:

Provided  further,  where  an  officer  of  the  Commission
authorized by the Commission is conducting a prosecution
or  appearing  on  behalf  of  the  Commission,  the  Attorney-
General may assist such officer.

66. At the trial of a person for an offence referred to in
section 41, on the request of the Commission, the relevant
court may, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other written law, call any witness, or allow the Commission
to  produce  any  document,  as  is  not  specified  in  the  list  of
witnesses  or  documents  respectively,  where  the  court  is
satisfied that calling of such witness or document is required
in the interest of Justice.

67.

(1) If at any time before the judgement is given by
the High Court against a person who has been indicted for
having committed one or more offences under this Act, the
Director-General may with the sanction of the Commission,
having due regard to the facts specified in subsection (2) and
subject to one or more conditions referred to in subsection
(3),  with  the  permission  of  the  High  Court,  withdraw  the
indictment against such accused.

Call  any  witness,
or  use  or
produce  any
document,  which
is  not  specified
in  the  list  of
witnesses  or  list
of  documents

Withdrawal  of

indictments

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

61

(2) When the Director-General withdraws the indictment

under subsection (1), he shall have due regard to–

(i)

the national interest and public interest;

(ii) views of the victims of the offence; and

(iii)

representations  that  may  be  made  by  the  accused
person or on his behalf by his Attorney-at-Law.

(3)  The  Director-General  may  when  withdrawing  an
indictment under subsection (1), impose on the accused one
or more of the following conditions to be fulfilled within a
stipulated  period:-

(i)

to publicly express remorse and apology before the
High Court, using a text issued by the Commission;

(ii)

to provide reparation to victims of the offence, as
specified by the Commission;

(iii)

to  publicly  undertake  that  he  refrains  from
committing an offence under this Act; or

(iv)

to permanently refrain from holding public office,
both  elected  and  appointed.

(4) If such person fulfills the conditions imposed under
subsection (3), during the period stipulated for fulfilling such
conditions,  the  Director-General  shall  not  present  a  fresh
indictment against the accused thereafter on the same charges
specified in the original indictment.

(5) If the accused fails without reasonable cause to comply
with  the  said  conditions,  the  Director-General  shall  file  a
fresh  indictment  against  the  accused  on  the  same  charges
specified in the original indictment and proceed to prosecute
the accused after the lapse of the period given for the accused
to fulfil such conditions.

Appeals

62

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

68.

(1)  Where  proceedings  are  instituted  in  the  High
Court by an indictment signed by the Director-General, the
Director-General  shall  have  the  right  to  appeal  against  a
judgment, order or sentence of such High Court in all cases
in which the Attorney-General would have had the right to
appeal  against  such  judgment,  order  or  sentence  had  an
indictment for such offence been presented to such Court by
the Attorney-General.

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written  law,  where  proceedings  are  instituted  in  the
Magistrate’s Court by a charge sheet signed by the Director-
General, the Director-General shall have the right to appeal
against a judgment, order or sentence of such Magistrate’s
Court.

(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, an officer of the Commission authorized by the
Commission,  the  Attorney-General  upon  a  request  by  the
Commission  or  any  other  Attorney-at-Law  specially
authorized by the Commission shall be entitled to–

(a)

(b)

conduct  appeals  in  respect  of  offences  under  this
Act; and

appear on behalf of the Commission in the appeals
of any other litigation which may have a bearing on
the Commission:

Provided that, where the Commission has requested the
Attorney-General to conduct any appeal or appear on behalf
of the Commission in the appeals of any other litigation, in
the  absence  of  the  Attorney-General,  an  officer  of  the
Commission  authorized  by  the  Commission  is  entitled  to
conduct such appeal or appear on behalf of the Commission:

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

63

Provided  further,  where  an  officer  of  the  Commission
authorized  by  the  Commission  is  conducting  an  appeal  or
appearing on behalf of the Commission, the Attorney-General
may assist such officer.

69.

(1)  The  Commission  may  prior  to  or  during  an
investigation  or  after  the  conclusion  of  an  investigation,
during prosecution, in an appeal or in any issue relevant to
the subject matter of such investigation solicit, receive and
consider  the  observations,  views,  opinions,  advise  or
comments of the Attorney-General.

Requesting  the
assistance  of  the
Attorney-
General

Not  to  charge  or
prosecute
accomplices

(2)  The  Commission  may  request  the  opinion  of  the
Attorney-General in any matter relating to the discharge of
its powers and functions under this Act.

(3) It shall be lawful for the Attorney-General to render

such assistance as requested by the Commission.

70.

(1) During any stage of the investigation or at any
time before the conclusion of the trial of a person charged
with bribery under the provisions of Part III of this Act, the
Commission may, with the view of obtaining at the trial the
evidence  of  any  person  supposed  to  have  been  directly  or
indirectly  concerned  in  or  privy  to  the  offence  by  writing
under its hand authorize any Magistrate named therein not
to charge or prosecute such person on condition of his making
a full and true disclosure of the whole of the circumstances
within  his  knowledge  relating  to  the  offence  and  to  every
other person concerned whether as principal or as abettor in
the commission thereof.

(2) The Magistrate shall record, in the manner specified in
the  Code  of  Criminal  Procedure  Act,  No.  15  of  1979,  the
evidence on oath of every person referred to in subsection (1)
and transmit the record to the Commission.

64

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3)  Every  person  referred  to  in  subsection  (1)  shall  be

examined as a witness in the case.

(4) Such person if not on bail, shall be detained in custody

until the termination of the trial.

(5) Where a person referred to in subsection (1) has willfully
concealed anything essential or has given false evidence, he
may be tried for the offence in respect of which he was charged
with or for any other offence of which he appears to have
been guilty in connection with the same matter.

(6)  The  statement  made  by  a  person  referred  to  in
subsection (1) may be given in evidence against him when
he is tried as stated in subsection (5).

71.

(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other written law, where the offence committed falls under
sections 106 and 108 of this Act, the Commission may, having
due regard to the facts specified in subsection (2), and subject
to one or more conditions referred to in subsection (3), enter
into an agreement with any person referred to in subsection
(8) of this section alleged to have committed an offence under
such sections to suspend and defer the Criminal Proceedings
against such person for a period not less than five years and
not exceeding ten years.

(2) Where the Commission agrees to suspend or defer the
criminal proceedings under subsection (1), it shall pay due
regard to-

(a)

the  state  policy  on  prevention  of  bribery  and
corruption;

(b)

the national interest and public interest;

Deferred
Prosecution
Agreements

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

65

(c) views of the victims of the offence, if any; and

(d)

the representations that may be made by the accused
person or on his behalf by his Attorney-at-Law.

(3) Where the Commission agrees in terms of subsection
(1) to suspend or defer the criminal proceedings against any
person alleged to have committed an offence under this Act,
the Commission shall prefer an application to the High Court,
to obtain the sanction of such Court for the imposition of one
or more of the following conditions to be fulfilled within a
stipulated  period,  on  such  person  as  consideration  for  the
suspension and deferment of the criminal proceedings against
such person –

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

to publicly express remorse and apology before the
High Court, using a text issued by the Commission;

to provide reparation to victims of the offence, as
specified by the Commission;

to publicly undertake that such person refrains from
committing an offence under this Act; or

to pay as compensation to the State the full amount
relating  to  the  offence  of  which  twenty  five  per
centum  shall  be  credited  to  the  Fund  of  the
Commission.

(4)  (a)  The  High  Court  may  upon  consideration  of  the
application made by the Commission under subsection (3),
and upon being satisfied that the agreement is in the interest
of justice and the terms of the agreement are fair, reasonable
and  proportionate  and  approve  such  agreement  and  notify
such person of the agreement.

66

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b) The agreement shall come into effect on the date on

which the agreement is approved by the High Court.

(5) If such person fulfills the conditions imposed under
subsection (3) during the period stipulated in the agreement
for  fulfilling  such  conditions,  the  Commission  shall  not
proceed against such person in respect of the offence alleged
to have been committed.

(6) If the person fails without valid excuse to comply with
such  conditions,  the  Commission  shall  upon  making  an
application  to  the  High  Court,  commence  criminal
proceedings against such person upon indictment.

(7)  At  the  expiration  of  the  period  stipulated  in  the
agreement, the Director-General shall, having informed and
obtained  the  permission  from  the  High  Court  shall
discontinue the proceedings against such person.

(8) Where the person referred to in this section is a body
corporate, an agreement under this section shall be entered
into between the Director-General and such body corporate.

72. The  Commission  may  take  any  other  appropriate
steps  not  inconsistent  with  the  provisions  of  this  Act  to
achieve the objectives of this Act and carry out the powers
and  functions  vested  in  the  Commission  under  this  Act  or
any other written law.

CHAPTER  V

PROTECTION OF INFORMERS, wHISTLEBLOWERS, wITNESSES, AND OTHER
PERSONS ASSISTING THE COMMISSION

General  power

Protection  of
informers  of  the
Commission

73.

(1) Where the Commission confidentially receives
information   to the effect that an offence under this Act has
been committed or suspected to have been committed or is
likely to be committed, such information and the identity of

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

67

the informer shall not be revealed and the informer and the
matters relating to such information shall not be disclosed in
any proceedings before any court, tribunal, or other authority.

(2) Where any record, written or electronic, which is given
in evidence or liable for inspection in any civil, criminal or
other proceedings, contains an entry relating to the informer
or the information given by the informer, the relevant court,
tribunal, or other authority shall cause the parts in such record
relating  to  the  informer  or  the  information  given,  to  be
concealed  from  view  so  as  to  protect  the  identity  of  such
informer.

(3) If on a trial for any offence under this Act, the court,
after  full  inquiry  into  the  case,  is  of  the  opinion  that  the
informer willfully made in his complaint a material statement
which he knew to be false or did not believe to be true, or if in
any other proceedings the court is of the opinion that justice
cannot  be  fully  administered  between  the  parties  thereto
without the discovery of the informer, the court may require
the production of the original complaint, if in writing, and
permit  inquiry  and  require  full  disclosure  concerning  the
informer.

(4)  Any  person  who  contravenes  the  provisions  of
subsection (1), commits an offence and on conviction by the
High Court be liable to a fine of one hundred thousand rupees
or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months or to
both such fine and imprisonment.

(5) Where a person-

(a) provides  information  to  the  Commission  or  any
officer  of  the  Commission  or  to  any  other  law

68

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

enforcement authority that a person, public official,
a body corporate or unincorporate, public or private
sector  entity  will  commit  or  is  committing  or  has
committed or is likely to commit an offence under
this Act; and

(b)

at the time such information is provided, believes
on reasonable grounds that such information is true
and is of such a nature as to warrant an investigation
under this Act,

such person shall not be subject to civil or criminal liability
as a result of providing such information.

(6) An informer shall not be subject to adverse conditions
of employment, reprisal, coercion, intimidation, retaliation,
harassment, any injury to his person, or threatening or any of
the  foregoing  for  providing  such  information.  Where  an
information is provided under section 74 by a whistleblower,
no disciplinary action shall be taken against him for providing
such information.

(7)  Despite  any  prohibition  of  or  restriction  on  the
disclosure of information under any other law, contract, oath
or practice, a whistleblower shall not be subject to detrimental
action  on  account  of  having  provided  information  under
subsection (1) of section 74 or subsection (5) of this section.

(8)  Any  provision  in  a  contract  of  service  or  other
agreement between an employer and an employee is void in
so far as it—

(a) purports  to  exclude  any  provision  of  this  Act,
including an agreement to refrain from instituting
or  continuing  any  proceedings  under  this  Act  or
any proceedings for breach of contract; or

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

69

(b) purports to preclude the employee or has the effect
of  discouraging  the  employee  from  providing
information.

(9) For the purposes of subsection (6) it shall be presumed
until  the  contrary  is  proved  that  the  adverse  conditions  of
employment,  reprisal,  coercion,  intimidation,  retaliation,
harassment, any injury to his person, or threatening or any of
the foregoing has occurred.

(10) A whistleblower shall assist the Commission in any
investigation which the Commission may make in relation
to the information provided by him.

74.

(1) Where a public official or an employee of a private

sector entity-

Protection  of
whistleblowers

(a) provides information to his superior officer that an
offence  under  this  Act  has  been  committed  or  is
being committed or is likely to be committed in or
in  connection  with  the  public  institution  or  the
private sector entity or any person, as the case may
be, in which he is employed; and

(b)

at  the  time  such  person  provides  information  he
believes on reasonable grounds that the information
he  provides  is  true  and  is  of  such  a  nature  as  to
warrant an investigation under this Act,

such public official or the employee of a private sector entity
(hereinafter  reffered  to  as  a  “whistleblower”)  shall  not  be
subject to any civil or criminal liability as a result of providing
such information.

(2)  Any  person  who  contravenes  the  provisions  of  this
section commits an offence under this Act and on conviction
by  the  High  Court  be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one
million rupees or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding
seven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

70

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Safety  of  persons
assisting  the
Commission

75.

(1) If it appears to the Commission that, the safety of
a person who assist the Commission is adversely affected or
such  person  or  any  other  person  may  be  subject  to
intimidation, harassment, injury or threat, the Commission
may make such arrangements as are necessary –

(a)

to provide physical safety to such person; or

(b)

to  protect  such  person  or  any  other  person  from
intimidation, harassment, injury or threat.

(2)  In  this  section,  ‘a  person  who  is  assisting  the

Commission’ means –

(a)

an informer in terms of section 73 of this Act;

(b)

a witness;

(c)

(d)

(e)

a  person  who  has  appeared,  is  appearing  or  is  to
appear before the Commission to give evidence or
to  produce  a  document  or  any  other  thing  in  an
inquiry  or  investigation  conducted  or  to  be
conducted or any other measure taken or to be taken
by the Commission under this Act;

a person who has produced or proposes to produce a
document or any other thing to the Commission in
any  inquiry  or  investigation  conducted  or  to  be
conducted or any other measure taken or to be taken
by the Commission under this Act; or

a person who has assisted, is assisting, or is to assist
the Commission in any other manner in an inquiry
or  investigation  conducted  or  to  be  conducted  or
any  other  measure  taken  or  to  be  taken  by  the
Commission under this Act.

(3)  Any  such  arrangement  referred  to  in  subsection  (1)

may involve any one of the following:–

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

71

(a)

issuing directions to the Inspector-General of Police
or any public authority or any public official–

(i)

to  provide  any  protection  referred  to  in
subsection (1);

(ii)

to  provide  personnel  assistance  or  facilities
or both, to assist in providing such protection;
or

(iii)

to  otherwise  assist  in  the  provision  of  such
protection;

(b) making  orders  applying  to  a  specified  person  for
the  purpose  of  protecting  the  physical  safety  of  a
person referred to in subsection (1) or of protecting
such person from intimidation or harassment. Such
an order is not limited to directions of a kind referred
to in paragraph (a).

(4) It shall be the duty of the Inspector-General of Police,
or  such  public  authority  or  public  official,  to  comply  with
any  such  direction  given  by  the  Commission  as  far  as
reasonably  possible.

(5)  Any  person  who  contravenes  an  order  made,  to  be
applicable  to  a  specified  person  under  paragraph  (b)  of
subsection (3) of this section without a reasonable excuse,
commits  an  offence  and  shall  on  conviction  by  the  High
Court be liable to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or
to a term of imprisonment not exceeding seven years or to
both such fine and imprisonment.

76.

(1) A person shall, in respect of any statement made,
information or answer given, or any document or any other
thing produced, to or before the Commission not to be liable
to  any  action,  prosecution  or  other  proceeding,  civil  or
criminal, in any court.

Immunity  to
witnesses

(2)  No  evidence  of  a  statement  made  or  answer  or
information given, by any person, to or before the Commission
shall  be  admissible  against  such  person  in  any  action,
prosecution or other proceeding civil or criminal, in any court:

72

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Provided that, nothing in the preceding provisions of this

section shall –

(i)

abridge  or  affect,  or  be  deemed  or  construed  to
abridge or affect the liability of any person to any
action, prosecution or penalty for any offence under
Chapter XI of the Penal Code (Chapter 19) read with
section 119 of this Act or for an offence under this
Act;

(ii) prohibit or be deemed or construed to prohibit the
publication  or  disclosure  of  the  name,  or  of  the
statement  or  of  any  part  of  the  statement  of  any
person  for  the  purposes  of  any  such  action  or
prosecution;  or

(iii)

affect the admissibility of any statement admissible
under section 147.

Protection  of
witnesses  and
persons  assisting
the  Commission
and  providing
legal
representation
where  necessary

Protection  of
victims’  rights

77. The  Commission  shall  have  the  power  to  provide
legal representation to any informer, whistleblower or witness
during an investigation, including inquiries at Magistrate’s
Court, without prejudice to such investigations and at a trial
in the High Court into an alleged offence committed against
such whistleblower or witness in terms of sections 73, 74 and
75 of this Act.

78.  Nothing  contained  in  this  Act  shall  prejudice  the
rights of victims and witnesses ensured under the provisions
of the Assistance to and Protection of Victims of Crime and
Witnesses Act, No. 4 of 2015.

PART  II

DECLARATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

Objects  of  this

79. Subject to section 2 of this Act, the objects of this

Part

Part shall be to –

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

73

(a)

compel  all  public  officials  to  make  periodic
declarations of their assets and liabilities within and
outside Sri Lanka;

(b) provide  for  a  centralized  electronic  system  for

submission of such declarations;

(c) provide for reference to be made to such declarations
by appropriate authorities and for investigations to
be conducted, upon the receipt of any information
against a person to whom this Part applies;

(d) provide  for  appropriate  measures  to  be  taken  in
respect of late submissions and non-declaration of
assets  and  liabilities,  and  for  furnishing  false
declarations;

(e) prevent illicit enrichment and conflicts of interest
arising in the discharge of public functions or official
activities, through public scrutiny; and

(f) provide  for  matters  connected  therewith  or

incidental  thereto.

80.

(1) The provisions of this Part shall apply to every
person  belonging  to  any  one  of  the  following  classes  or
descriptions:-

Application  of
this  Part

(a)

the President;

(b)

the Prime Minister;

(c) Members of Parliament;

(d) Governors of provinces;

(e) members of Provincial Councils and staff officers of

the Provincial Public Service;

74

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(f)

(g)

elected  members  and  staff  officers  of  local
authorities;

Judges  and  public  officers  appointed  by  the
President;

(h) public  officers  appointed  by  the  Cabinet  of

Ministers;

(i)

(j)

judicial  officers  and  scheduled  public  officers
appointed by the Judicial Service Commission;

staff  officers  in  Ministries  and  Government
Departments;

(k) members  of  the  Constitutional  Council  appointed
in terms of Article 41A (1) (e) of the Constitution,
who are not members of Parliament;

(l) persons appointed as Chairmen or members as the
case may be of any of the Commissions specified in
the Schedule to Article 41B of the Constitution;

(m)

(n)

staff officers of the Central Bank of Sri Lankan and
State Banks;

staff  officers  of  the  Independent  Commissions
established  under  Article  41A  (1)(c)  of  the
Constitution or under any Statute;

(o) Chairpersons,  Commissioners,  members  and  staff
officers of independent regulatory and supervisory
Commissions or bodies established by or under any
Statute;

(p) Chairmen,  Directors,  members  of  the  Boards  and
executive  officers  of  any  public  corporation
established by or under any Statute;

(q) private staff members of the Members of Parliament,
members  of  Provincial  Councils  and  members  of
local  authorities;

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

75

(r) officers of the Sri Lanka Army raised and maintained
in accordance with the provisions of the Army Act
(Chapter 357);

(s) officers of the Sri Lanka Navy raised and maintained
in accordance with the provisions of the Navy Act
(Chapter 358);

(t)

commissioned officers of the Sri Lanka Air Force
raised  and  maintained  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the Air Force Act (Chapter 359);

(u) office- bearers of recognized political parties for the
purposes  of  elections  under  the  Presidential
Elections  Act,  No.15  of  1981,  the  Parliamentary
Elections  Act,  No.  1  of  1981,  the  Provincial
Councils  Elections  Act,  No.  2  of  1988,  Local
Authorities  Elections  Ordinance  (Chapter  262)  or
the Trade Unions Ordinance (Chapter 138);

(v) Executives of trade unions registered under the Trade

Unions Ordinance (Chapter 138);

(w)

candidates nominated for election at elections to be
held under the Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of
1981,  the  Parliamentary  Elections  Act,  No.  1  of
1981, the Provincial Councils Elections Act, No. 2
of 1988 or the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance
(Chapter 262);

(x) Chairmen, Directors and staff officers of Companies
registered  under  the  provisions  of  the  Companies
Act, No. 07 of 2007, in which not less than twenty
five per centum of shares are held by the State or by
a  public  corporation;

(y)

staff in managerial or supervisory roles of financial
institutions which are scheduled institutions within
the meaning of this Act;

76

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(z) Heads of Sri Lankan Diplomatic Missions;

(aa) officers  appointed  by  the  Cabinet  of  Ministers  to

Sri Lankan Diplomatic Missions;

(bb) proprietors, editors and members of the editorial staff
of newspapers in respect of which declarations have
been  made  under  section  2  of  the  Newspaper
Ordinance (Chapter 180);

(cc) proprietors, editors and members of the editorial staff
of  media  companies  licensed  under  section  17  of
the Sri Lanka Telecommunications Act, No. 25 of
1991;

(dd) office  bearers  of  National  Associations  of  Sports
established in terms of the Sports Law, No. 25 of
1973;  and

(ee)

such categories of other officers as may be prescribed
by regulations as high risk categories by taking into
consideration  the  vulnerability  of  such  officers  to
bribery or corruption having regard to the nature of
the work they perform in their respective offices.

(2) A person to whom the provisions of this Part applies
by virtue of the operation of subsection (1), is hereinafter in
this Part referred to as a “person to whom this Part applies”.

81.

 Every person to whom this Part applies shall, make a
declaration, in accordance with the provisions of section 82,
(hereinafter in this Part referred to as a “declaration of assets
and liabilities”), of all-

(a) his assets and liabilities;

(b)

the assets and liabilities of his spouse;

Duty  of  persons
to  whom  this
Part  applies  to
make
declarations  of
assets  and
liabilities

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

77

(c)

(d)

(e)

the  assets  and  liabilities  of  each  of  his  dependant
children irrespective of their age;

assets and liabilities of any other person’s dependant
on him irrespective of their age; and

the  assets  and  liabilities  of  any  other  person  who
cohabits  and  shares  the  common  household  with
the person to whom this Part applies for at least six
months prior to the date of declaration except where
such  person  does  not  share  mutual  rights  and
obligations with person to whom this Part applies.

82.

(1) Every person to whom this Part applies shall, in
the  form  as  may  be  prescribed  by  regulations  make
declarations of assets and liabilities-

When  to  make
declarations  of
assets  and
liabilities

(a) within  three  months  of  the  date  of  appointment
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “first  appointment
declaration”);

(b)

annually  in  terms  of  subsection  (3)  (hereinafter
referred to as the “annual declaration”);

(c) within a period of fourteen days immediately after
the end of the tenure of his employment or the date
of his retirement or the date of dismissal from office
as  the  case  may  be  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“end of tenure or retirement declaration”);

(d)

in  two  consecutive  years  immediately  succeeding
the  year  of  making  the  declaration  under
paragraph  (c)  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “post
retirement declaration”);

(e) where  a  significant  change  in  the  value  of  assets
and  liabilities  amounting  to  ten  million  rupees  or
more  than  ten  million  rupees  occurs,  within  one
month from the date of such occurrence (hereinafter
referred to as the “ad-hoc declaration”); and

78

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(f) when nomination papers are submitted for elections,
under the Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of 1981,
the Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 1 of 1981, the
Provincial Councils Elections Act, No. 2 of 1988 or
the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance (Chapter
262) as the case may be.

(2)  Where  a  person  who  on  the  appointed  date  is  not  a
person to whom this Part applies, he shall, within three months
of the date on which he becomes a person to whom this Part
applies, make a declaration of assets and liabilities as at the
date such person becomes a person to whom this Act applies:

Provided  that,  a  person  to  whom  this  Part  applies  as  is
referred to in paragraph (w) of subsection (1) of section 80
shall submit his declaration for the period up to the date of
the  declaration  made  under  the  relevant  law  declaring  the
date of election.

(3)  Every  person  who  is  required  to  make  the  first
declaration of assets and liabilities under subsection (1) or
(2) shall, unless such person ceases to be a person to whom
this Part applies, by the thirtieth day of June in each year,
make  in  the  Form  as  may  be  prescribed  by  regulations  a
declaration of his assets and liabilities as at the thirty first
day of March of such year and include in such declaration
the assets and liabilities he held on the date on which he was
first required to make a declaration of his assets and liabilities
under this Part:

Provided that, where a person who is required to make a
declaration of assets and liabilities under subsection (2) has
made the first declaration as at any date within six months
preceding the thirty first day of March in any year, he shall
not  be  required  to  make  another  declaration  for  such  year
other than an ad- hoc declaration where a significant change
referred to in paragraph (e) of subsection (1) occurs in his
assets and liabilities.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

79

83.

(1) The submission and verification of declarations
of assets and liabilities shall be made through the centralized
electronic  system  administered  by  the  Commission
(hereinafter in this Part referred to as the “Central Authority”).

Submission
process  of
declarations  of
assets  and
liabilities

(2) Electronic assets and liabilities declarations (hereinafter
referred  to  as  “electronic  declaration”)  shall  be  submitted
either in Sinhala, Tamil or English language.

(3)  The  provisions  of  the  Electronic  Transactions  Act,
No.  19  of  2006  which  are  not  expressly  excluded  by  the
provisions  of  this  Act  or  are  not  inconsistent  with  the
provisions of this Act shall apply to this Part.

(4)  A  person  who  has  made  an  electronic  assets  and
liabilities  declaration  may  make  alterations  in  such
declaration-

(a) within  fifteen  days  for  first  or  subsequent

declarations;  and

(b) within seven days for ad-hoc declarations,

and the system will automatically close after that period:

Provided however, the person to whom this Part applies
may  be  allowed  access  to  the  centralised  electronic
submission  system  to  make  alterations  in  his  electronic
declaration after fifteen days or seven days as the case may
be with the special sanction of the Central Authority, where
the Central Authority deems that a justifiable reason exists.

(5) Where a person to whom this Part applies makes an
alteration in his declaration under subsection (4), such person
shall be provided with copies of his original declaration to
make the required alterations and the last copy of such person’s
declaration shall be regarded as the true and final declaration.

80

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(6) A person to whom this Part applies may seek assistance
in  submitting  the  declaration  to  be  submitted  under
subsection (2), from the Central Authority or from any officer
assigned by the Central Authority.

(7)  Manual  submission  of  declarations  of  assets  and
liabilities shall be allowed during the transitional period until
the centralised electronic submission system comes into effect
or in instances in which the electronic system has collapsed
due to technical failures.

Verification
process

84.

(1) The Central Authority shall conduct a verification
of  the  declarations  of  assets  and  liabilities  to  detect  prima
facie proof of illicit enrichment, and conflicts of interests in
the circumstances referred to in subsection (2).

(2)  The Central Authority shall conduct a verification of
the  declarations  of  asset  and  liabilities  in  the  following
circumstances:-

(a) when  such  declarations  are  selected  for  such
verification according to the procedure prescribed
by  regulations;

(b) upon  discrepancies  and  red  flags  automatically

detected in the electronic system;

(c) upon receipt of a complaint from any person on an
illicit enrichment or conflict of interest with regard
to a person to whom this Part applies; or

(d) when the Central Authority ex mero motu  detects
prima  facie  proofs  of  possible  violation  through
public sources or its own investigations.

(3)  The  detection  of  illicit  enrichment  upon  any
verification conducted under subsection (2) shall lead to an
investigation  under  section  42.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

81

85.

(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law,
the  Central  Authority  shall  have  access  to  records  and
databases of any other public authority within Sri Lanka for
the  purpose  of  verification  of  declarations  of  assets  and
liabilities  in  so  far  as  the  information  accessed  pertains  to
assets, liabilities, income, expenditure, and interests which
gives rise to or may give rise to conflicts of interest.

(2)  For  the  purpose  of  this  Part,  public  authority  shall
have the same meaning as in the Right to Information Act,
No. 12 of 2016 and shall include the Department of Inland
Revenue,  Department  of  Motor  Traffic,  Department  of
Customs  and  Registrar  General  of  Lands  and  Registrar
General of Title.

86. The  Attorney-General,  the  Commission,  the
Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue, the Head of the
Department of Exchange Control, Inspector General of Police,
designated officers of special police units, Director-General
of Customs and designated officers of Financial Intelligence
Unit shall have the right to call for and refer to any declaration
of  assets  and  liabilities  submitted  under  this  Part  with  the
sanction of the Central Authority.

Access  to  other
records

Power  to  refer
declaration  of
assets  and
liabilities

87.

(1)  There  shall  be  a  data  base  maintained  by  the
Central Authority for the purpose of securing information in
electronic form relating to assets and liabilities of every person
to  whom  this  Part  applies  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“centralized electronic system”).

Centralized
Electronic
System

(2) Regulations may be made to prescribe the manner of

maintaining the centralized electronic system.

(3) Nothing contained in the Evidence (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 14 of 1995 shall apply to and in relation to any data,
message,  electronic  document,  electronic  record  or  other
document to which the provisions of this Act apply.

Public  Access

82

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(4)  The  Commission  shall  specify  by  way  of  rules  the
authorizing or facilitating the use of the centralized electronic
system.

88.

(1)  The  centralized  electronic  system  shall
automatically generate redacted version of every declaration
of  assets  and  liabilities  which  is  accessible  to  the  general
public within one month of its submission through the official
website of the Commission. Such redacted version shall not
include  –

(a)

(b)

the address of the residence of the declarant or of
any other person, whose assets are declared by the
declarant;

full  address/es  of  declared  real  estate  except
information  pertaining  to  the  ward  and  district  in
which the real estate is situated;

(c) date  of  birth,  National  Identity  Card  Number,
Passport Number or any other number recognized
by  the  relevant  authorities  for  the  purpose  of
identification  of  individuals  mentioned  in  the
declaration;

(d) bank account numbers; or

(e)

any other deposit details:

Provided  that,  when  generating  the  aforementioned
redacted version of a declaration of assets and liabilities, the
commission  shall  ascertain  the  identity  of  the  person
obtaining the redacted version and the identity of such person
shall be recorded.

(2) The Central Authority shall, within a period of three
months of the commencement of the functions of the Central
Authority, appoint an officer as the Information Officer of
the Central Authority in terms of section 23 of the Right to
Information Act, No. 12 of 2016 and the Head of the Central
Authority shall be the Designated Officer for the purposes of
the said Act.

Access  to
declarations  of
candidates  of
elections

89. Every candidate of elections referred to in paragraph
(w) of subsection (1) of section 80 shall, submit a copy of the
form and a summary of the declaration of assets, and liabilities,
to      the  Commissioner  of  Elections  together  with  such
candidate’s nomination papers.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

83

90.

(1)  If  a  person  whom  declarations  of  assets  and
liabilities are to be made under this Part fails to comply with
the requirements of this Part, within two weeks from thirtieth
June each year, such person shall be warned by sending letters
by the Central Authority.

Offences  related
to  the  declaration
of  Assets  and
Liabilities

(2) Any person who fails to submit his annual declaration
or  the  post  retirement  declaration  under  section  82  of  this
Act on due date, shall be liable to a daily administrative fine
imposed by the Central Authority equivalent to one thirtieth
of the last drawn gross monthly salary of the declarant for the
period commencing from the due date of the declaration up
to thirty first day of July. An enhanced daily administrative
fine equivalent to one thirtieth of last drawn gross salary for
last six months will be imposed for late submissions from
first of August to thirty first of August. The fine shall be a
surcharge on the remuneration or the retirement benefit as
the case may be.

(3) Any person who fails to submit his first appointment
declaration,  ad-hoc  declaration  or  the  end  of  tenure  or
retirement declaration under section 82 of this Act on due
date, shall be liable to a daily administrative fine imposed by
the Central Authority equivalent to one thirtieth of the last
drown gross monthly salary of the declarant. A fine will be
imposed for late submissions up to fourteen days after the
due  date  for  the  submissions.  An  enhanced  daily
administrative fine equivalent to one thirtieth of the last drawn
gross monthly salaries for last six months shall be imposed
for late submissions between fourteen days and twenty eight
days after the due date for the submission of such declaration.

(4) Any person who fails to submit his declaration of assets
and liabilities along with his application form for nomination
for  an  election,  shall  be  liable  to  sanctions  in  accordance
with the provisions of the relevant written laws.

84

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(5) Any person who fails to submit the annual declaration
or the post retirement declaration as the case may be until the
first of September of the relevant year commits an offence
and  shall,  on  conviction  after  summary  trial  before  a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine equivalent to last drawn gross
salaries  for  twelve  months  of  that  person  or  to  a  term  of
imprisonment of either description not exceeding one year
or to both such fine and imprisonment:

Provided that, the Commission shall investigate of such

non-submission, for the purposes of verifications.

(6) Any person who fails to submit the first appointment
declaration,  ad-hoc  declaration  or  the  end  of  tenure  or
retirement declaration until twenty eight days after the due
date,  commits  an  offence  and  shall  on  conviction  after
summary  trial  before  a  Magistrate,  be  liable  to  a  fine
equivalent  to-

(a) one hundred thousand rupees, where any person fails
to submit his first appointment declaration;

(b) one hundred thousand rupees, where any person fails

to submit his ad-hoc declaration; or

(c)

last  drawn  gross  salary  of  that  person,  where  any
person fails to submit his end of tenure or retirement
declaration,

or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding one year or to
both such fine and imprisonment:

Provided  that,  the  Commission  shall  investigate,  of  the

non submission for the purposes of verifications.

(7) Any person -

(a) who makes any false statement in any declaration;

or

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

85

(b) who willfully omits any asset or liability from any

declaration,

commits an offence and shall on conviction after summary 
trial  before  a  Magistrate,  be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding 
two hundred thousand rupees or to a term of imprisonment 
not exceeding one year or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(8)  Any  person  who  fails  without  reasonable  cause  to 
provide  any  additional  information  as  may  be  required  by 
the Commission, commits an offence and shall on conviction 
after summary trail before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not 
exceeding  one  hundred  thousand  rupees  or  to  a  term  of 
imprisonment of either description not exceeding one year 
or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(9)  A  person  who  is  convicted  of  an  offence  under 
subsection (6) or (7) shall, within a period of fourteen days 
after  the  date  of  conviction,  or  in  the  event  of  an  appeal 
against  such  conviction,  within  a  period  of  fourteen  days 
after  the  date  of  affirmation  of  such  conviction,  make  the 
declaration of assets and liabilities referred to in section 81. 
The provisions of section 79 and the provisions of the other 
preceding sections of this Part shall, mutatis mutandis, apply 
to any declaration of assets and liabilities made by such person 
under this subsection in like manner and to the same extent 
as they apply to any declaration of assets and liabilities made 
under section 81.

(10) Where any person is convicted of an offence under 
paragraph (b) of subsection (7), the asset in respect of which 
the offence was committed shall by virtue of such conviction 
be vested in the State free of all encumbrances.

(11) The vesting of any assets in the State under preceding 

subsection (10) shall take effect-

86

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(a) where an appeal has been preferred to the Court of
Appeal or the Supreme Court against the order of
forfeiture,  upon  the  determination  of  the  appeal,
confirming or upholding the order of forfeiture;

(b) where no appeal has been preferred to the Court of
Appeal  against  the  order  of  forfeiture,  after  the
expiration of the period within which an appeal may
be preferred to the Supreme Court against the order
of forfeiture.

(12) All administrative fines under this Chapter imposed
upon any person by the Central Authority shall be surcharged
on the remuneration or the retirement benefit as the case may
be of such person, and shall be remitted to the Fund of the
Commission.

91. The Central Authority may, at any time, call for such
additional  information  as  the  Commission  may  require
from–

(a)

any  person  who  has  made  a  declaration  of  assets
and  liabilities  under  this  Part,  and  utilize  such
information or the declaration made under this Part;
or

(b)

any  other  person,  any  information,  record  or
document,

for the performance of its functions under Part I of this Act.

92.

In  this  Part  unless  the  context  otherwise  requires
“assets  and  liabilities”  means  assets,  liabilities,  income,
expenditure and interests directly or beneficially owned in
or outside Sri Lanka, the details of which shall be prescribed
by  regulations.

Power  of  the
Commission  to
call  for
additional
information

Assets  and
Liabilities

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

87

PART III

CHAPTER I

OFFENCES RELATING TO BRIBERY OR CORRUPTION

93. A person –

(a) who offers any gratification to a Judge of the Supreme
Court, Court of Appeal or High Court or a judicial
officer, or a member of  a tribunal or an institution or
a  person  exercising  quasi-judicial  power,  or  a
member of Parliament or a member of a Provincial
Council or a local authority as an inducement or a
reward for such Judge’s or officer’s or Member’s doing
or for bearing to do any act in his judicial capacity or
in his capacity as such Member, or

(b) who, being a Judge of the Supreme Court, Court of
Appeal, High Court or  a judicial officer, or a member
of tribunal or an institution or a person exercising
quasi-judicial power, or a Member of Parliament, or
a member of Provincial Council or a local authority
solictis or accepts any gratification as an inducement
or a reward for his doing or forbearing to do any act
in  his  judicial  capacity  or  in  his  capacity  as  such
Member,

Bribery  of
Judges  of  the
Supreme  Court,
Court  of  Appeal,
High  Courts,
judicial  officers,
members  of
tribunals  or
institutions  and
persons
exercising  quasi-
judicial  powers
and  Members  of
Parliament,
Provincial
Councils  and
loacal  authorities

commits an offence of bribery under this Act and on conviction
be liable to a fine not exceeding one million rupees and to a
term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding seven years.

94. A Member of Parliament, a member of a Provincial
Council  or  a  local  authority  who  solicits  or  accepts  any
gratification as an inducement or a reward for –

(a)

(b)

interviewing  a  public  official  on  behalf  of  any
person; or

appearing on behalf of any person before a public
official  exercising  judicial  or  quasi-judicial
functions,

Acceptance  of
gratification  by
Members  of
Parliament  a
Provincial
Council  or  a
local  authority
for  interviewing
public  officials

88

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

commits  an  offence  of  bribery  under  this  Act  and  on
conviction  be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one  million
rupees and for a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding
seven years:

Provided however, that it shall not be an offence under
the  preceding  provisions  of  this  section  for  a  Member  of
Parliament to appear as an attorney-at-law before a court of
law or before a statutory tribunal of which a public official is
not a member.

Illegal  access  etc
to  electronic
assets  declaration
system  to  be  an
offence

95. Any person who accesses the centralized electronic
system illegally or without due authority commits an offence
and on conviction be liable to fine not exceeding one million
rupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding
seven years.

Bribery  of  police
officers,  peace
officers  and
other  public
officials

96. A person -

(a) who offers any gratification to any police officer,
peace officer, or other public official, employed in
any  capacity  for  the  prosecution,  detection  or
punishment of offenders, or to an officer of a court,
as an inducement or a reward for such officer’s or
official’s interfering with the due administration of
justice, or procuring or facilitating the commission
of  any  offence,  or  protecting  from  detection  or
punishment  the  perpetrator  of  any  offence,  or
abusing his official powers to the injury or detriment
of any person; or

(b) who, being any such officer or official, solicits or
accepts  any  gratification  as  an  inducement  or  a
reward for such interfering, procuring, facilitating,
protecting, or abusing as is referred to in paragraph
(a) of this section,

commits an offence of bribery under this Act and on conviction
be liable to a fine not exceeding one million rupees and to a
term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding seven years.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

89

97. A person -

(a) who offers any gratification to a public official as
an  inducement  or  reward  for  such  public  official
giving  assistance  or  using  influence  in  the
promotion of the procuring of any contract with the
Government, for the performance of any work, the
providing of any service, the doing of anything, or
the supplying of any article, material or substance,
or in the execution of any such contract, or in the
payment  of  the  price  or  consideration  stipulated
therein or of any subsidy payable in respect thereof;
or

(b) who, being a public official, solicits or accepts any
gratification as an inducement or a reward for his
giving  assistance  or  using  influence  in  the
promotion of the procuring of any such contract as
is referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, or in
the execution of any such contract, or in the payment
of the price or consideration stipulated therein or of
any subsidy payable in respect thereof,

commits an offence and on conviction be liable to a fine not
exceeding  one  million  rupees  and  to  a  term  of  rigorous
imprisonment not exceeding seven years.

98. A person –

(a) who, with intent to obtain from the Government a
contract  for  performing  any  work,  providing  any
service,  doing  anything,  or  supplying  any  article,
material or substance, offers any gratification to any
person who has made a tender for such contract, as
an inducement or a reward for his withdrawing such
tender; or

Bribery  for
giving  assistance
or  using
influence  with
regard  to
contracts

Bribery  for
procuring
withdrawal  of
tenders

Bribery  in
respect  of
Government
business

90

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b) who  solicits  or  accepts  any  gratification  as  an
inducement or a reward for his withdrawing a tender
made  by  him  for  such  contract  as  is  specified  in
paragraph (a),

commits  an  offence  of  bribery  under  this  Act  and  on
conviction  be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one  million
rupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding
seven years.

99. A person -

(a) who offers any gratification to a public official as
an inducement or a reward for that public official
performing  or  abstaining  from  performing  any
official  act,  or  expediting,  delaying,  hindering  or
preventing  the  performance  of  any  official  act
whether by that public official or by any other public
official,  or  assisting,  favouring,  hindering  or
delaying  any  person  in  the  transaction  of  any
business with the Government;

(b) who, being a public official, solicits or accepts any
gratification as an inducement or a reward for his
performing  or  abstaining  from  performing  any
official  act  or  for  such  expediting,  delaying,
hindering,  preventing,  assisting  or  favouring  any
such official act as is referred to in paragraph (a) of
this section; or

(c) who, being a public official solicits or accepts any

gratification,

commits  an  offence  of  bribery  under  this  Act  and  on
conviction  be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one  million
rupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding
seven years.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

91

Provided  that,  section  35  of  the  Medical  Ordinance
(Chapter 105) shall not entitle a medical practitioner who is
a public official to solicit or accept any gratification.

100.  A person-

(a) who  offers  any  gratification  to  any  person  as  an

inducement or a reward for–

Bribery  of  public
officials  by
persons  having
dealings  with  the
Government

(i) his  procuring  from  the  Government  the
payment of the whole or a part of any claim;

(ii) his  procuring  or  furthering  the  appointment
of the first-mentioned person or of any other
person to any office;

(iii) his preventing the appointment of any other

person to any office;

(iv) his  procuring,  or  furthering  the  securing  of,
any  employment  for  the  first-mentioned
person  or  for  any  other  person  in  any
department,  office  or  establishment  of  the
Government;

(v) his  preventing  the  securing  of  any
employment  for  any  other  person  in  any
department,  office  or  establishment  of  the
Government;

(vi) his  procuring,  or  furthering  the  securing  of
any grant, lease, service, favour, advantage or
other benefit from the Government for the first-
mentioned person or for any other person; or

(vii) his preventing the securing of any such grant,
lease,  service,  favour,  advantage  or  other
benefit for any other person; or

Bribery  of  public
officials  by
persons  having
dealings  with  the
Government

92

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(b) who  solicits  or  accepts  any  gratification  as  an
inducement or a reward for his doing any of the acts
specified in subparagraphs (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi)
and (vii) of paragraph (a) of this section,

commits  an  offence  of  bribery  under  this  Act  and  on
conviction  be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one  million
rupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding
seven years.

101.  A person –

(a) who,  while  having  dealings  of  any  kind  with  the
Government  through  any  department,  office  or
establishment  of  the  Government,  offers  any
gratification to any public official employed in that
department, office or establishment;

(b) who,  within  one  year  before  or  after  his  having
dealings of any kind with the Government through
any  department,  office  or  establishment  of  the
Government, offers any gratification to any public
official  employed  in  that  department,  office  or
establishment; or

(c) who, being a public official, solicits or accepts any
gratification, the offer of which is an offence under
this section,

commits  an  offence  of  bribery  under  this  Act  and  on
conviction  be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one  million
rupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding
seven years:

Bribery  of  a
member  of  a
Provincial
Council  or  a
local  authority,
or  of  a  scheduled
institution,  or  of
a  governing
body  of  a
scheduled
institution,  and
bribery  of
official  of  a
Provincial
Council  or  a
local  authority  or
a  shceduled
institution  or  a
governing  body
of  such
scheduled
institution

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

93

102.  A person -

(a) who  offers  any  gratification  to  any  member  of  a
Provincial  Council  or  a  local  authority,  or  of  a
scheduled institution, or of the governing body of a
scheduled institution, as an inducement or a reward
for -

(i)

such  member’s  voting  or  abstaining  from
voting  at  any  meeting  of  such  Provincial
local  authority,  scheduled
Council, 
institution,  or  governing  body  or  of  a
committee thereof in favour of or against any
measure, resolution or question submitted to
such  Provincial  Council,  local  authority,
scheduled  institution,  governing  body  or
committee;

(ii)

such member’s performing, or abstaining from
performing,  or  his  aid  in  procuring,
expediting, delaying, hindering or preventing
the performance of any official act; or

(iii)

such member’s aid in procuring or preventing
the passing of any vote or the granting of any
contract or advantage in favour of any person;

(b) who  offers  any  gratification  to  any  officer  or
employee  of  any  local  authority  or  a  Provincial
Council,  or  of  any  scheduled  institution,  as  an
inducement or a reward for –

(i)

such  officer’s  or  employee’s  performing  or
abstaining  from  performing,  or  his  aid  in
procuring, expediting, delaying, hindering or
preventing  the  performance  of,  any  official
act; or

(ii)

such  officer’s  or  employee’s  procuring  or
preventing  the  passing  of  any  vote  or  the

94

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

granting of any contract or advantage in favour
of any person;

(c) who, being such member as is referred to in paragraph
(a) of this section, solicits or accepts any gratification
as an inducement or a reward for any such act, or
any  such  abstaining,  as  is  referred  to  in
subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of that paragraph; or

(d) who, being such officer or employee as is referred to
in paragraph (b) of this section, solicits or accepts
any gratification as an inducement or a reward for
any such act, or any such abstaining, as is referred to
in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of that paragraph,

commits  an  offence  of  bribery  under  this  Act  and  on
conviction  be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one  million
rupees and to term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding
seven years.

103.  A person -

(a) who, attempts by any threat, deceit, suppression of
the truth or other unlawful means to influence any
member of a Provincial Council, a local authority,
or  of  a  scheduled  institution  or  of  the  governing
body  of  a  scheduled  institution  or  a  committee
thereof in giving or withholding his vote in favour
of  or  against  any  measure,  motion,  resolution  or
question  submitted  to  any  meeting,  or  in  not
attending any meeting, of such Provincial Council,
local authority, scheduled institution, or governing
body or of any committee thereof; or

(b) who attempts by any such means as in the paragraph
(a)  to  influence  any  member  or  any  officer  or
employee of a Provincial Council, a  local authority,
or  of  a  scheduled  institution,  or  of  the  governing
body of a scheduled institution to aid in procuring
or preventing the passing of any vote or the granting
of any contract or advantage in favour of any person,

Use  of  threats  or
fraud  to
influence  vote  of
member  of  a
Provincial
Council,  local
authority,  or  of  a
scheduled
institution,  or  of
a  governing
body  of  a
scheduled
institution

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

95

or to perform or abstain from performing, or to aid in
procuring,  expediting,  delaying,  hindering  or
preventing the performance of, any official act,

commits  an  offence  under  this  Act  and  on  conviction  be
liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one  million  rupees  and  to  a
term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding seven years.

104. (1) A person who offers to a public official or any
other person, directly or indirectly any gratification in order
to influence such public official or other person with a view
to obtaining from the Government any benefit or service for
himself or any other person commits the offence of bribery
and on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one million
rupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding
seven years.

(2) A public official or any other person who, directly or
indirectly, solicits or accepts any gratification as is referred
to in subsection (1) commits an offence of bribery and on
conviction  be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one  million
rupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding
seven years.

Trading  in
influence

105. (1) A person who offers to a foreign public official a

gratification, for him-

Bribery  of  a
foreign  public
official

(a)

(b)

to  obtain  or  retain  a  contract,  business  or  an
advantage in the conduct of international business;
and

to act or refrains from acting in the exercise of such
foreign public official’s official duties in a manner
that breaches an official duty or uses such foreign
public  official’s  or  another  person’s  position  to
influence any act or decision of the foreign State or
public  international  organization  concerned,

commits  an  offence  of  bribery  under  this  Act  and  on
conviction  be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one  million
rupees or to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding
seven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

96

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) For the purposes of this section, international business

includes the provision of international aid.

(3) A person who offers a  gratification under this section

commits an offence under this section, irrespective of –

(a) whether the gratification is offered for the benefit of
the foreign public official who is to act or refrain
from acting or act or refrain from acting for another
person;

(b) whether  the  gratification  offered  has  actually
influenced  the  foreign  public  official’s  actions  or
omissions; or

(c) whether  the  gratification  offered  to  the  foreign
public official is neither permitted nor required by
the written law applicable to him to be influenced
in his capacity as a foreign public official.

(4) For the purposes of paragraph (c) of subsection (3), the
written  law  applicable  to  the  foreign  public  official  shall
mean —

(a) where the performance of the functions of the foreign
public official which the person intends to influence
would be subject to the laws of Sri Lanka; and

(b) where paragraph (a) does not apply and the foreign
public  official  is  an  official  or  agent  of  a  public
international  organization,  the  applicable  written
rules of that organization:

Provided however, where paragraphs (a) and (b) do not
apply, the law of the country or territory in relation to which
the foreign public official is a foreign public official so far as
that law is contained in—

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

97

(i)

any  written  Constitution,  or  any  provision
made  by  or  under  legislation,  applicable  to
the country or territory concerned; or

(ii)

any judicial decision which is so applicable
and is evidenced in published written sources.

106.

(1) Any person who, in the course of any economic,
financial or commercial activity, offers, directly or indirectly,
a gratification on behalf of himself or another person to any
employee  in  any  capacity  or  a  director  in  a  private  sector
entity, in order to commit any act or refrain from committing
any act in breach of his duties, commits an offence of bribery
under  this  Act    and  on  conviction  be  liable  to  a  fine  not
exceeding  one  million  rupees  or  to  a  term  of  rigorous
imprisonment not exceeding seven years or to both such fine
and imprisonment.

(2) An employee in any capacity or a director in a private
sector  entity,  in  the  course  of  economic,  financial  or
commercial activities, solicits or accepts, directly or indirectly
an advantage, for himself or for another person, in order to act
or refrain from doing any act in breach of the duties of such
employee or director, commits an offence of bribery under
this Act  and on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding
one million rupees or to a term of rigorous imprisonment not
exceeding seven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

107.      (1)  Where  a  public  authority  in  which  a  public
official is a member, director, or employee proposes to deal
with a person, company, partnership or other undertaking in
which that public official or a relative or associate of such
public official has a direct or indirect interest which interest
is within his knowledge of that public official shall forthwith
disclose  to  that  authority  the  nature  of  such  interest  in  the
manner as may be prescribed by regulations.

Bribery  in  the
private  sector

Failure  to  declare
conflicts  of
interest

98

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2)  Where  a  public  official  or  a  relative  or  associate  of
such public official has a personal interest in a decision which
a  public  authority  is  to  take  regarding  a  person,  company,
partnership  or  other  undertaking,  that  public  official  shall
not  vote  or  take  part  in  any  proceedings  of  that  public
authority relating to such decision.

(3) Any public official who contravenes the provisions of
subsection  (1)  or  (2)  commits  an  offence  and  shall  on
conviction by the High Court be liable to a fine not exceeding
one million rupees or to a term of rigorous imprisonment not
exceeding seven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(4)  The  Commission  shall  specify  by  way  of  rules  the
handling  and  management  of  conflict  of  interest  of  public
officials.

Offences  relating
to  sporting
events

108.   (1) Any person who, directly or indirectly accepts or
agrees or offers to accept any gratification from any other
person, whether for the benefit of himself or for the benefit of
that other person or of another person-

(a)

in return for-

(i)

engaging in any act which constitutes a threat
to or undermines the integrity of any sporting
event, including, in any way, influencing the
run of play or the outcome of a sporting event;
or

(ii) not  reporting  the  act  contemplated  in  this
section  to  the  managing  director,  chief
executive  officer  or  to  any  other  person
holding a similar post in the sporting body or
regulatory  authority  concerned  or  to  the
nearest police station; or

(b)

as  a  reward  for  acting  as  contemplated  in
subparagraph (i) of paragraph (a),

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

99

commits  an  offence  and  shall  on  conviction  by  the  High
Court be liable to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or
to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding seven years
or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(2) Any person who, directly or indirectly gives or agrees
or offers to give to any other person any gratification, whether
for the benefit of that other person or for the benefit of another
person-

(a)

in return for-

(i)

engaging in any act which constitutes a threat
to or undermines the integrity of any sporting
event, including, in any way, influencing the
run of play or the outcome of a sporting event;
or

(ii) not  reporting  the  act  contemplated  in  this
section  to  the  managing  director,  chief
executive  officer  or  to  any  other  person
holding a similar post in the sporting body or
regulatory  authority  concerned  or  to  such
person’s nearest police station; or

(b)

as a reward for acting as contemplated in paragraph
(a),

commits  an  offence  and  shall  on  conviction  by  the  High
Court be liable to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or
to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding seven years
or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Accumulation  of
wealth  by  an
offence  under
this  Act

100

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) Any person who directly or indirectly carries into effect
any scheme which constitutes a threat to or undermines the
integrity  of  any  sporting  event,  including,  in  any  way,
influencing  the  run  of  play  or  the  outcome  of  a  sporting
event,  commits  an  offence  and  shall  on  conviction  by  the
High  Court  be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one  million
rupees or to a term of rigorous imprisonment not exceeding
seven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(4)  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this
section, the offences of Chapter 1 of  Part II of the Prevention
of  Offences relating to Sports Act, No. 24 of 2019, shall have
the  same  meaning  as  in  the  respective  sections  and  shall
carry  the  same  punishment  as  specified  in  the  respective
sections.

109. (1) Where a person has or had acquired any property,

and such property –

(a) being  money,  which  cannot  be  or  could  not  have

been –

(i) part  of  such  person’s  known  income  or

receipts; or

(ii) money to which any part of his known receipts

has or had been converted; or

(b) being property other than money, which cannot be

or could not have been -

(i) property  acquired  using  any  part  of  such

person’s known income;

(ii) property which is or was part of such person’s

known receipts; or

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

101

(iii) property to which any part of such person’s

known receipts has or had been converted,

then, for the purposes of any prosecution under this
section,  it  shall  be  deemed,  until  the  contrary  is
proved by such person, that such property is or was
property which such person has or had acquired by
the  commission  of  any  of  the  offences  under  this
Chapter of this Act or to which such person has or
had converted any property acquired by committing
an offence under this Act.

(2) In subsection (1) “income” does not include income
from proceeds of an offence under this Act, and ''receipts'' do
not include recipts from proceeds of an offence under this
Act.

(3) A person who is or had been the owner of any property
which is deemed under subsection (1) to be property which
such person has or had acquired by committing an offence
under this Act or to which such person has or had converted
any  property  acquired  by  such  person  by  committing  any
offence  under  this  Act,  commits  an  offence  and  shall  on
conviction by the High Court be liable to a fine not exceeding
one million rupees and to a term of rigorous imprisonment
not exceeding seven years:

Provided  that,  where  such  property  is  or  was  money
deposited to the credit of such person’s account in any bank
and such person satisfies the court that such deposit has or
had been made by any other person without such person’s
consent or knowledge, such person shall not be considered
as a person who commits or who has committed an offence
under the preceding provisions of this subsection.

102

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(4) No prosecution for an offence under this section shall
be instituted against any person unless the Commission has
given such person an opportunity to show cause as to why
such person should not be prosecuted for such offence and
where such person has failed to show cause as such or the
cause shown by such person is unsatisfactory in the opinion
of  such  Commission  a  prosecution  shall  then  be  instituted
against such person under this section.

(5) For the purposes of this section, where a spouse or an
unmarried child under the age of eighteen years of a person
has or had acquired any property movable or immovable on
or  after  the  date  of  commencement  of  this  Act,  it  shall  be
presumed until the contrary is proved that such property was
acquired by such person aforesaid and not by such spouse or
unmarried child, as the case may be.

(6) (a) In any prosecution for an offence under this section,
a certificate from the Chief Valuer with regard to the value of
any immovable property or the cost of construction of any
building on such property shall be sufficient proof of such
value  and  such  cost  of  construction  unless  and  until  the
contrary is proved.

(b)  In  this  subsection,  “Chief  Valuer”  means  the  Chief
Valuer of the Government, and includes any Senior Assistant
Valuer,  or  Assistant  Valuer  of  the  Government  Valuation
Department.

(7) For the purpose of this section “a person” shall mean
any person whomsoever, whether or not such person can be
shown to have been concerned with any act referred to in this
Chapter or whether or not he is a public official within the
meaning of this Act.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

103

(8) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
provision of this Part, where a court convicts a person of an
offence under this Part, the court may in lieu of imposing a
penalty or fine, make order that any movable or immovable
property found to have been acquired by bribery or by the
proceeds  of  bribery,  be  forfeited  to  the  State  free  from  all
encumbrances:

Provided however, that, in determining whether an order
of forfeiture should be made, the court shall be entitled to
take  into  consideration  whether  such  an  order  is  likely  to
prejudice the rights of a bona fide purchaser for value or any
other person who has acquired, for value a bona fide interest
in such property.

(9) An order made under subsection (8) shall take effect–

(a) where  an  appeal  has  been  made  to  the  Court
of Appeal or the Supreme Court against the order
of  forfeiture,  upon  the  determination  of  such
appeal  confirming  or  upholding  the  order  of
forfeiture; or

(b) where  no  appeal  has  been  preferred  to  the  Court
of Appeal or the Supreme Court against the order
of  forfeiture,  after  the  expiration  of  the  period
within which an appeal may be preferred to the Court
of  Appeal  or  the  Supreme  Court  against  such
order.

(10) A person, who conceals or retains proceeds or any
part thereof of an offence committed under this Act, knowing
that property is the result of proceeds of an offence under this
Act shall commit an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to  a rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven
years or to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or to both
such fine and imprisonment:

Gratification

104

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Provided  that,  a  person  conceals  or  retains  proceeds  or
any part thereof whether or not he conceals or retains such
proceeds directly or indirectly through intermediaries or for
his own benefit or for the benefit of another or of an entity.

110. (1) A person offers a gratification if he or any other
person  acting  with  his  knowledge  or  consent  directly  or
indirectly gives, affords or holds out, or agrees, undertakes or
promises to give, afford or hold out, any gratification to or
for the benefit of or in trust for any other person.

(2)  A  person  solicits  a  gratification  if  he,  or  any  other
person  acting  with  his  knowledge  or  consent,  directly  or
indirectly demands, invites, asks for, or indicates willingness
to receive, any gratification, whether for the first-mentioned
person or for any other person.

(3)  A  person  accepts  a  gratification  if  he,  or  any  other
person  acting  with  his  knowledge  or  consent,  directly  or
indirectly takes, receives or obtains, or agrees to take, receive
or obtain any gratification, whether for the first-mentioned
person or for any other person.

(4) Any person who offers, solicits or accepts a gratification
which  is  an  offence  under  this  Act  shall,  if  such  offer,
solicitation  or  acceptance  was  made  outside  Sri  Lanka,  be
deemed to have committed such offence within Sri Lanka,
and  accordingly  the  High  Court  holden  in  Colombo  shall
have jurisdiction to try such offence notwithstanding anything
to the contrary in any other written law.

Corruption

111. Any public official who, with intent or knowledge to
cause  wrongful  or  unlawful  loss  to  the  Government,  or  to
confer a wrongful or unlawful benefit, favour or advantage

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

105

on himself or on any other person, or with intent or knowledge,
that  any  wrongful  or  unlawful  loss  will  be  caused  to  any
person or to the Government, or that any wrongful or unlawful
benefit, favour or advantage will be conferred on any person-

(a) does, or forbears to do, any act by virtue of his office
as a public official or by use of such office with or
without any power therefor vested with such officer;

(b)

induces  any  other  public  official  to  perform,  or
refrain  from  performing,  any  act  by  virtue  of  his
office as a public official;

(c) uses any information coming to his knowledge by

virtue of his office as a public official;

(d) participates in the making of any decision by virtue

of his office as a public official; or

(e)

induces any other person, by the use, whether directly
or indirectly, of his office as such public official to
perform, or refrain from performing any act,

commits the offence of corruption and shall upon trial and
conviction  by  a  High  Court  or  upon  summary  trial  and
conviction by a Magistrate be liable to rigorous imprisonment
for a term not exceeding ten years or to a fine not exceeding
one million rupees or to both such imprisonment and fine.

112. (1) Where any person commits an offence under this
Act,  which  amounts  to  an  unlawful  activity  within  the
meaning of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5
of  2006, such person may be charged for an offence under
that Act in addition to an offence under  this Act.

An  offender
under  this  Act,
may  be  charged
with  an  offence
under  the
Prerention  of
Money
Laundering  Act

Acceptance  of
gratification
without  power

106

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) The provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering
Act,  No.  5  of  2006  shall,  mutatis  mutandis,  apply  to  the
inquries,  investigtions  and  proceedings  respect  of  such
offence under that Act and any reference in the said Act to
the Assistant Superintendent of  Police or any other police
officer shall be read and construed as a reference to an officer
designated by the Commission under this Act.

113. (1) Where in any proceedings against any person for
any  offence  under  this  Act,  it  is  proved  that  such  person
solicited  or  accepted  any  gratification,  having  grounds  to
believe  or  suspect  that  the  gratification  was  offered  in
consideration of such person’s doing or forbearing to do any
act referred to in that section,  such person commits an offence
under that section notwithstanding that such person did not
actually  have  the  power,  right  or  opportunity  so  to  do  or
forbear or that such person accepted the gratification without
intending so to do or forbear or that such person did not in
fact so do or forbear.

(2) Where in any proceedings against any person for an
offence under section 111 of this Act, it is proved that such
person  intended  to  cause  wrongful  or  unlawful  loss  to  the
Government,  or  to  confer  a  wrongful  or  unlawful  benefit,
favour or advantage on such person or any other person, or
had knowledge, that any wrongful or unlawful loss will be
caused  to  any  person  or  to  the  Government,  or  that  any
wrongful  or  unlawful  benefit,  favour  or  advantage  will  be
conferred on any person by such person’s doing or forbearing
to do any act referred to in that section, such person commits
an  offence  under  that  section  notwithstanding  that  such
person did not actually have the power, right or opportunity
so to do or forbear or that such person did not in fact so do or
forbear.

Additional
penalties

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

107

114. (1) Where a court convicts any person for an offence

committed by the offer or acceptance of any gratification in
contravention  of  any  provision  of  this  Act,  then,  if  that
gratification  is  a  sum  of  money  or  if  the  value  of  that
gratification can be assessed, the court shall, in addition to
imposing on that person any other punishment, order him to
pay  as  a  penalty,  within  such  time  as  may  be  specified  in

the  order,  a  sum  which  is  equal  to  the  amount  of  that
gratification or is, in the opinion of the court, the value of
that  gratification.

(2)  Where  the  High  Court  convicts  any  person  for
committing  an  offence  under  section  109  it  shall,  in

addition  to  any  other  penalty  that  it  is  required  to  impose
under  this  Act,  impose  a  fine  of  not  less  than  the  amount
which such Court has found, to have been acquired by bribery
or  by  the  proceeds  of  bribery  or  to  have  converted  to
property by bribery, and shall not exceed three times such
amount.

(3) A fine or a penalty imposed by a court on any person
for  the  commission  of  any  offence  under  this  Act  may  be
recovered  as  if  the  order  imposing  the  fine  or  the  penalty
were a decree entered by District Court in favour of the State
and against that person, where the fine or penalty exceeds
one million rupees and the person charged with such fine or

penalty fails to pay such fine or penalty.

(4)  Where  the  person  liable  to  pay  the  fine  or  penalty
referred to in the preceding provisions of this section was a
public official on the date of commission of the offence for

108

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

which the fine or penalty was imposed, then, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in any other written law, any movable
or  immovable  property  acquired  after  the  said  date  by  the
spouse of, or a son or daughter maintained by such person
shall, in addition to the movable and immovable property of
such person, be liable to be seized and sold for the recovery
of  the  amount  of  such  fine  or  penalty,  if  the  property  so
acquired–

(a) was purchased by such spouse, son or daughter;

(b) was purchased in the name of such spouse, son or
daughter  by  the  person  liable  to  pay  such  fine  or
penalty;

(c) was  acquired  by  such  spouse,  son  or  daughter  by
purchase,  gift  or  otherwise  from  the  person  who
offered the gratification for the acceptance of which
the person liable to pay such fine or penalty became
so liable; or

(d) was  acquired  by  testate  or  intestate  succession
from  the  person  liable  to  pay  such  fine  or
penalty.

(5) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
provision of this Act, where a court convicts a person, the
court may, for any offence under this Act, make order that
any  movable  or  immovable  property  found  to  have  been
acquired  by  the  commission  of  such  offence  or  by  the
proceeds of such offence, be forfeited to the State free from
all encumbrances:

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

109

Provided however that, in determining whether an order
of forfeiture should be made, the court shall be entitled to
take  into  consideration  whether  such  an  order  is  likely  to
prejudice the rights of a bona fide purchaser for value or any
other person who has acquired for value, a bona fide interest
in such property.

(6) An order made under subsection (5) shall take effect –

(a) where  an  appeal  has  been  made  to  the  Court  of
Appeal or the Supreme Court against the order of
forfeiture,  upon  the  determination  of  such  appeal
confirming or upholding the order of forfeiture; or

(b) where no appeal has been preferred to the Court of
Appeal or the Supreme Court against the order of
forfeiture, after the expiration of the period within
which an appeal may be preferred to the Court of
Appeal or the Supreme Court, against such order.

(7) Where a person is convicted of an offence under this
Chapter of this Part, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in  subsections  (7)  and  (8)  of  section  303  of  the  Code  of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, by reason of such
conviction  or  finding-

(a)

such person shall become incapable of being-

(i)

registered  as  an  elector  or  of  voting  at  any
election for a period of seven years from the
date  of  such  conviction  or  finding  under
Parliamentary  Elections  Act,  No.  1  of  1981
and  Presidential  Elections  Act,  No.  15  of
1981;  or  for  a  period  of  five  years  under
Provincial Councils Elections Act, No. 2 of
1988,  or  the  Local  Authorities  Elections
Ordinance (Chapter 262), or

110

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(ii)

elected  or  appointed  as  a  Member  of
Parliament or as a member of a local authority
or a Provincial Council from the date of such
conviction or finding and, if at that date such
person  has  been  elected  or  appointed  as  a
Member of Parliament or member of a local
authority,  or  of  a  Provincial  Council  such
person’s  election  or  appointment  as  such
member shall be vacated from that date;

(b)

(c)

(d)

such person shall be disqualified for life from being
employed as a public official and from being elected
or  appointed  to  a  scheduled  institution  or  to  the
governing body of a scheduled institution;

such person shall, if he is a member of a scheduled
institution or of the governing body of a scheduled
institution, ceases to be a member of either of such
institutions  from  the  date  of  such  conviction  or
finding;  and
such person shall, if he is a public official, ceases to
be a public official from the date of such conviction
or  finding  and,  notwithstanding  anything  to  the
contrary in any other written law, be deemed to have
been  dismissed  on  that  date  by  the  authority
empowered by law to dismiss him.

Non  conviction
based  forfeiture
of  property

115.  (1) The High Court shall, on an application made by
the  Director-General  or  any  officer  authorized  by  the
Commission  within  a  reasonable  period  grant  a  non
conviction based forfeiture order in respect of any property
within  the  jurisdiction  of  such  court  where  the  court  is
satisfied prima facie on the balance of probabilities that such
property  is  or  such  property  represents  property  obtained
through  any  of  the  offences  committed  under  this  Act  or
property  intended  to  be  used  in  committing    any  of  the
offences under this Act.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

111

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), to be satisfied that
a property is subject to the provision of subsection (1), it is
not necessary to show that-

(a)

the  property  was  derived  directly  or  indirectly,  in
whole or in part, from the commission of a particular
offence under this Act; or

(b)

any  person  has  been  prosecuted  or  convicted  in
relation to such an offence,

but only that it is the proceeds from any offence under this
Act or it was used or intended to be used to commit an offence
under this Act.

(3) An application for forfeiture may be made in respect of
property  into  which  original  proceeds  of  an  offence  under
this Act have been converted either by sale or otherwise.

(4) The  Director-General  shall  give  notice  in  writing
regarding an application made under subsection (1) to any
person who claims an interest in such property which is the
subject matter of such application or to any person who is
known  to  have  an  interest  in  such  property  or  where  the
Director-General reasonably believes that a person may have
an  interest  in  such  property,  to  such  person  not  less  than
thirty days of making such application:

Provided  however,  the  Director-General  may  dispense
with  the  notice  if  that  person  has  absconded  from  the
proceedings.

(5) Any person who claims an interest in a property which
is the subject matter of the application made under subsection
(1), may appear and adduce evidence at the hearing of such
application.

112

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(6) The Court may, at any time before a decision is made
on  the  application  made  under  subsection  (1),  order  the
Director-General to publish a notice of such application in a
daily news paper circulating in the island in Sinhala, Tamil
and English languages, for the benefit of any person who, in
the opinion of the court, appears to have any interest in such
application.

(7) Where a person claiming an interest in any property
which is the subject matter of any application made under
subsection  (1),  satisfies  the  court  that  such  person  has
acquired–

(a)

(b)

the  interest  in  such  property  before  any  offence
relating  to  such  property  under  this  Act  has  been
committed; or

the interest for a fair value after any offence relating
to such property under this Act was committed but
did not know or could not reasonably have known
before obtaining such interest that the property was
the proceeds of any offence committed under this
Act,

the  court  may  make  such  order  regarding  such  interest
declaring that the forfeiture order shall not affect such interest
to such extent or in such manner.

(8) The court may when it makes a forfeiture order under
this section or any time thereafter, make any other order which
the court may consider appropriate, including orders for and
in respect of facilitating the transfer of such property.

(9) Any order made under this section shall not be affected
by  any  decision  of  any  criminal  proceeding  or  of  an
investigation  conducted  to  determine  whether  criminal
proceedings shall be instituted or not, in respect of the property
which is the subject matter of this application.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

113

(10) The provisions of subsection (4) of section 114 relating
to forfeiture order shall mutatis mutandis apply for forfeiture
orders under this section.

116.  Where a body of persons is convicted of an offence

under this Act, then-

Offences  by
body  of  persons

(a)

if  such  body  of  persons  is  a  body  incorporate  or
unincorporate  or  a  corporation,  every  director  or
officer or agent thereof; and

(b)

if such body of persons is a firm, every partner,

shall be liable to a fine as specified for the respective offences:

Provided however, a director or an officer or agent of such
body  incorporate,  unincorporate  or  of  such  corporation  or
partner of such firm shall not be deemed to be guilty of such
offence if he proves that such offence was committed without
his knowledge or that he used all due diligence to prevent
the commission of such offence.

117.  For the purposes of this Part, a public official or an

employee of a private sector entity shall include —

Employee  shall
include  former
employees,  etc.

(a)

a former employee;

(b)

(c)

(d)

a person seconded to the public authority or private
sector  entity;

an individual who is engaged or contracted under a
contract  for  services  to  do  work  for  the  public
authority or private sector entity;

a person concerned in the management of the public
authority or private sector entity (including a person
who is a member of the board or governing body of
the public authority or private sector entity);

Contempt

114

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(e)

a  person  who  works  for  the  public  authority  or
private sector entity as a volunteer without reward
or expectation of reward for that work; or

(f)

a trainee or an apprentice of the public authority or
private sector entity.

CHAPTER  II

PROCEDURAL OFFENCES

118. (1) Every offence of contempt committed against or
in  disrespect  of,  the  authority  of  the  Commission  shall  be
punishable by the Supreme Court as though it were an offence
of  contempt  committed  against,  or  in  disrespect  of  the
authority  of  such  court,  and  the  Supreme  Court  is  hereby
vested with jurisdiction to try every such offence.

(2) An act done or omitted to be done in relation to the
Commission, whether in the presence of the Commission or
otherwise, shall constitute an offence of contempt against, or
in disrespect of the authority of the Commission, if such act
would, if done or omitted to be done in relation to the Supreme
Court, have constituted an offence of contempt against or in
disrespect of the authority of such court.

(3) If any person-

(a)

(b)

fails  to  appear  before  the  Commission  without  a
cause  reasonable  enough  in  the  opinion  of  the
Commission, at the time and place mentioned in a
summon served under this Act;

refuses to be sworn or affirmed or, having been duly
sworn or affirmed, refuses or fails without a cause
reasonable enough in the opinion of the Commission,
to answer any question put to such person touching
the matters being investigated by the Commission;

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

115

 (c)

refuses or fails without a cause reasonable enough
in the opinion of the Commission, to comply with
the requirements of a notice or written order issued
or made to such person by the Commission; or

(d) upon  whom  a  summons  is  served  under  this  Act,
refuses or fails without a cause reasonable enough
in the opinion of the Commission, to produce and
show  to  the  Commission  any  document  or  other
thing which is in such person’s possession or control
and  which  is  in  the  opinion  of  the  Commission
necessary for arriving at the truth of the matters being
investigated,

such person commits the offence of contempt against or in
disrespect of the authority of the Commission.

(4) For the purposes of this section, it shall not be deemed
to be a reasonable cause for a person to refuse or fail to answer
any question or to produce and show any document or other
thing on the ground that the matter being investigated by the
Commission  is  the  same  or  substantially  the  same  matter
which is the subject of, or is likely to be the subject of an
inquiry in any proceeding in any court or on the ground that
the answer to such question or the production or showing of
such  document  or  other  thing  may  directly  or  indirectly
affect,  or  cause  prejudice  to  such  person  in  any  other
proceedings.

(5)  Where  a  Commission  determines  that  a  person  has
committed any offence of contempt under subsection (2) or
subsection  (3)  against  or  in  disrespect  of  its  authority,  the
Commission may cause the Director-General to transmit to
the  Supreme  Court,  a  certificate  setting  out  such
determination,  which  certificate  shall  be  signed  by  the
Chairman of the Commission.

116

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(6) In any proceeding for the punishment for an offence of
contempt  which  the  Supreme  Court  may  think  fit  to  take
cognizance  of  as  provided  in  this  section,  any  document
purporting to be a certificate signed and transmitted to the
court under subsection (5) shall–

(a) be received in evidence, and be deemed to be such
a certificate without further proof unless the contrary
is proved; and

(b) be  evidence  that  the  determination  set  out  in  the
certificate was made by the Commission and of the
facts stated in the determination.

(7) In any proceedings taken as provided in this section
for the punishment of any alleged offence of contempt against,
or  in  disrespect  of  the  authority  of  the  Commission,
notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  this  Act,  no
member of the Commission shall, except with such person’s
own consent, be summoned or examined as a witness.

119.  Every  person  who  makes  an  allegation  in  any
information or complaint made by him to the Commission
under  section  43  knowing  such  allegation  to  be  false  or
having  reason  to  believe  that  such  allegation  does  not
constitute an offence under this Act shall on conviction after
summary  trial  before  a  Magistrate  be  liable  to  a  fine  not
exceeding one million rupees or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding three years or to both such fine and imprisonment
and shall in addition, be liable to the payment to the person
in  respect  of  whom  the  allegation  was  made,  of  a  sum  of
money as compensation as the court may think fit.

False  allegations

Contravening
Secrecy

120. Every person who acts in contravention of the duty
imposed on him under subsections (1) and (2) of section 28
to  maintain  secrecy  commits  an  offence  and  shall  on

Resisting  or
obstructing
duties  of
Director-General
or  other  officer

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

117

conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable
to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years or to both
such fine and imprisonment.

121. Any person who –

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

refuses the Director- General or any officer appointed
to assist the Commission to enter, search, or have
access to any place;

assaults, obstructs, hinders or delays Director-General
or any officer appointed to assist the Commission in
effecting any entrance which the Director-General or
such officer is entitled to effect under this Act, or in
the execution of any duty imposed or power conferred
on such officer by this Act;

fails  to  comply  with  any  lawful  demand  of  the
Director-General or any officer appointed to assist
the Commission in the execution of such person’s
duty under this Act;

refuses or neglects to give any information which
may  reasonably  be  required  of  such  person  and
which  such  person  has  in  such  person’s  power  to
give; or

(e)

resists  or  obstructs  an  officer  in  the  execution
of such officer’s duty under the provisions of this
Act,

commits an offence and on conviction after summary trail
before  a  Magistrate  be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one
million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
seven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

118

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

False  statements,
information,  etc.

122. Any person who knowingly —

(a) gives or causes to be given any false or misleading
information  relating  to  the  commission  of  any
offence  under  this  Act  or  under  any  other  law  in
relation  to  which  an  investigation  discloses  the
commission of any offence by any person; or

(b) gives or causes to be given to the Director- General
or  any  other  officer  appointed  to  assist  the
Commission false or misleading information,

commits an offence and shall on conviction after summary
trail before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding one
million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
seven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Giving  False
evidence

123. (1) The provisions of Chapter XI of the Penal Code
(Chapter 19) shall apply in respect of any person who gives
false evidence in any proceeding under this Act.

Falsely  pretend
one  to  be  an
officer

(2) Prior sanction of the Attorney-General, required to be
obtained under section 135 of the Criminal Procedure Code,
Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall not apply to any prosecution under
this section.

124. Any person who falsely pretends that he is an officer
or employee of the Commission or a person whose services
are retained under section 27 or has any of the powers of such
officer, employee or person under this Act or that he is able to
influence such officer, employee or person to do or refrain
from  doing  anything  in  connection  with  the  duty  of  such
officer, employee or person under this Act commits an offence
and  shall  on  conviction  after  summary  trial  before  a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding one million rupees
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years or to
both such fine and imprisonment.

Obstructing
justice

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

119

125.  (1)  A  person  who  directly  or  indirectly  influences
any member of the Commission, the Director-General, officer
or employee of the Commission or a person whose services
are  retained  under  section  27  in  the  performance  of  such
member’s, the Director-General’s or officer’s or employee’s
or  person’s  duty  commits  an  offence  and  shall,  upon
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable
to a fine of one hundred thousand rupees.

(2) A person who directly or indirectly by words written or
spoken  or  by  any  act  threatens  any  member  of  the
Commission, the Director-General or any officer or employee
of the Commission or a person whose services are retained
under  section  27  with  any  injury  to  such  member’s,  the
Director-General’s or any other officer’s  or employee’s or
person’s  body,  mind  or  reputation  in  order  to  deter  such
member, Director-General, officer or employee or person from
the performance of such member’s, the Director-General’s or
any other officer’s, employee’s or the person’s duty under
this Act commits an offence and shall, upon conviction after
summary  trial  before  a  Magistrate,  be  liable  to  a  fine  not
exceeding  one  million  rupees,  and  upon  a  second  or
subsequent conviction for an offence under this subsection
shall, in addition to such fine, be liable to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding seven years.

(3)  A  person  who  causes  injury  to  the  body,  mind  or
reputation  of  a  member  of  the  Commission,  the  Director
General, any other officer or employee of the Commission or
a person whose services are retained under section 27 in order
to deter such member, Director-General, any other officer or
employee of the Commission or a person whose services are
retained under section 27 from the performance of their duty
under  this  Act  shall,  upon  conviction  after  summary  trial
before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine of not less than five
hundred  thousand  rupees  and  not  more  than  one  million
rupees or to rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceeding
seven years.

Refuses,
neglects,  or
omits  to  carry
out  an  order  of
the  Commission

120

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

126.  (1) A person who fails or neglects, without reasonable
excuse,  to  comply  with  any  lawful  demand,  notice,  order,
direction or request of the Commission, the Director-General
or  the  officers  thereof  in  the  exercise  of  the  powers  and
functions under this Act commits an offence and shall, upon
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable
to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one  million  rupees  or  to  rigorous
imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.

(2) A prosecution for an offence under subsection (1) may
be instituted in such Magistrates’ Court as may be determined
by the Commission.

Miscellaneous
offences

127. (1) Any person who –

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

interferes with a person who is to be, or has been,
examined by the Commission;

interferes  with  a  person  summoned  in  any
proceedings instituted under this Act in or before a
court of law;

induces a person to refrain from giving evidence in
any proceedings under the Act, in any court;

threatens a person with injury to such person’s body,
mind  or  reputation  in  order  to  deter  such  person
from giving evidence in any proceedings under the
Act in any court;

(e)

injures a person in body, mind or reputation in order
to  deter  such  person  from  giving  evidence  in  any
proceedings under the Act in any court;

(f)

compels  a  person  not  to  give  evidence  in  any
proceedings under the Act in any court;

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

121

(g) without reasonable cause fails to appear before the
Commission at the time and place mentioned in a
request served under this Act;

(h) without  reasonable  cause  refuses  to  be  sworn  or
affirmed  or,  having  been  duly  sworn  or  affirmed,
refuses or fails to answer any question put to such
person regarding the matters being investigated by
the Commission;

(i) without reasonable cause refuses or fails to comply
with  the  requirement  of  a  notice  or  written  order
issued or made to such person by the Commission;

(j)

(k)

falsifies, conceals, destroys or otherwise disposes of
or causes or permits the falsification, concealment,
destruction or disposal of any document or material
or thing which is or is likely to be relevant to the
exercise, performance or discharge of any power,
duty or function under this Act;

falsifies, conceals, destroys or otherwise disposes of
or causes or permits the falsification, concealment,
destruction or disposal of any document or material
or thing which is or is likely to be relevant to the
execution of any order made in accordance with the
provisions of this Act;

(l) destroys or otherwise disposes of any document or
material which such person knows or has reason to
believe  is  relevant  to  an  investigation  under  the
Prevention of Money Laundering Act, No. 5 of 2006
or the Convention for the Suppression of Financing
of Terrorism Act, No. 25 of 2005;

122

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(m) divulges the fact that a report has been made or any
information has been provided to the Commission
in  terms  of  any  provision  of  this  Act,  or  that  an
investigation into an offence is being, or is about to
be  made,  or  divulges  any  other  information  to
another person whereby such investigation is likely
to be prejudiced; or

(n)

conceals or retains proceeds or any part thereof of
the results of the proceeds of an offence under this
Act,  whether  or  not  he  conceals  or  retains  such
proceeds  directly  or 
through
intermediaries  or  conceals  or  retains  for  his  own
benefit  or  for  the  benefit  of  another  person  or  an
entity,

indirectly 

commits an offence and shall on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding one
million rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
seven years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(2)  The  provisions  of  subsection  (1)  shall  not  apply  to

disclosures made to -

(a)

(b)

(c)

an officer or employee or agent of the person making
a report under this Act for any purpose connected
with the performance of that person’s duties;

an attorney at law or legal advisor for the purpose of
obtaining legal advice or representation in relation
to any matter; or

the supervisory authority of the relevant institution,
in  so  far  as  it  is  related  to  the  discharge  of  the
functions of the supervisory authority.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

123

(3) No person referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection
(2) to whom any disclosure of information has been made,
shall disclose that information other than to a person referred
to therein, in so far as it is necessary for -

(a)

the  performance  of  the  first-mentioned  person’s
duties; or

(b) obtaining legal advice or representation in relation

to the matter.

(4) No person referred to in paragraph (c) of subsection (2)
to whom the disclosure of any information has been made
shall disclose that information except for the purpose referred
to in that subsection, or for the purpose of obtaining legal
advice or making representation in relation to a matter to the
Financial  Intelligence  Unit  established  in  terms  of  the
Financial Transactions Reporting Act, No. 6 of 2006.

128. Any person who contravenes the provisions of section
145 of this Act commits an offence and shall, upon conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not
exceeding  one  million  rupees  or  to  rigorous  imprisonment
for a term not exceeding seven years.

Contravention  of

the  legal

obligation  to

give  information

General  Offence

129. Any person who commits an offence referred to in
section 41 for which no penalty is expressly provided for by
this  Act  or  other  relevant  law,  shall  upon  conviction  after
summary  trial  before  a  Magistrate  be  liable  to  a  fine  not
exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment
of either description for a term not exceeding six months or
to both such fine and imprisonment.

Director-General

on  the  direction

of  the

Commission  to

initiate

proceedings  in

Magistrate’s

Courts

Compensation

124

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

PART IV

GENERAL

130.  A  Magistrate’s  Court  shall  not  entertain  any
prosecution for an offence under this Act except instituted
by the Director- General on the direction of the Commission.

131. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other provision of this Act, any person who is convicted of
any offence under this Act may be ordered by the court to
pay such sum of money as compensation to the Fund of the
Commission or to any person affected by such offence.

(2) The compensation payable under subsection (1) shall

be recovered as a fine imposed by the court.

(3) The Court may order that such sum of money payable
as compensation under subsection (1), shall be paid within a
stipulated period of time or in such instalments as may be
specified by court.

Cognizable

offences

132. All  offences  under  this  Act  shall  be  cognizable
offences for the purposes of the application of the provisions
of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

Abetment  of  the

commission  of

an  offence

133. Whoever abets —

(a)

the commission of an offence under this Act; or

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

125

(b)

the  commission  outside  Sri  Lanka  of  any  act,  in
relation to the affairs or business or on behalf of a
principal residing in Sri Lanka, which if committed
in Sri Lanka would be an offence under this Act,

commits an offence and shall be tried in the same manner and
shall upon conviction be liable to the same punishment as is
specified by this Act for the first mentioned offence.

In this section the expression “abet” shall have the same
meaning  as  in  sections  100  and  101  of  the  Penal  Code
(Chapter 19).

134.  A  person  who  attempts  to  commit  or  to  cause  the
commission of an offence under this Act and in such attempt
does any other act towards the commission of that offence
commits an offence and shall be tried in the same manner and
shall upon conviction be liable to the same punishment as is
specified by this Act for the first mentioned offence.

Attempts

135. Whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit
an offence under this Act shall commit an offence under this
Act  and  shall  be  tried  in  the  same  manner  and  shall  upon
conviction be liable to the same punishment as is specified
by this Act for the first mentioned offence.

Conspiracy

 For the purpose of this section, “conspiracy” shall have
the same meaning assigned to it under section 113A of the
Penal Code (Chapter 19).

136. (1) Such of the provisions of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 as are not excluded by this Act
or are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act shall
generally apply to this Act.

Applicability  of

the  Code  of

Criminal

Procedure  Act

and  etc.

126

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(2) The  provisions  of  the  Electronic  Transactions  Act,
No.  19  of  2006  which  are  not  expressly  excluded  by  the
provisions  of  this  Act  or  are  not  inconsistent  with  the
provisions of this Act shall apply to this Act.

(3) The offences specified in Schedule A and Schedule B
to this Act where such offences have been committed in the
same transaction together with an act which constitutes an
offence in terms of this Act, shall have the same meaning
assigned to such offences in those respective enactments and
shall  carry  the  same  punishments  as  specified  in  those
enactments:

Provided however, where the punishment for any offence
specified in those respective enactments is less than a fine,
not exceeding one million rupees or a term of imprisonment
not  exceeding  seven  years  or  both  such  fine  and
imprisonment, a fine not exceeding one million rupees or a
term of imprisonment not exceeding seven years or both such
fine and imprisonment shall apply to such offence.

(4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Penal
Code  (Chapter  19),  for  the  purposes  of  this  Act,  the  word
“property”  shall  mean  and  include  assets  of  every  kind,
whether  corporeal  or  incorporeal,  movable  or  immovable,
tangible  or  intangible  and  legal  documents  or  instruments
evidencing title to or interest in such assets.

(5) The provisions of the Right to Information Act, No. 12

of 2016 shall apply to this Act.

Cases  not
provided  for  in
any  other  law

137.  As  regards  matters  of  procedure  for  which  special
provisions have not been made by this Act or by any other
law for the time being in force, such procedure as the justice
of the case may require and as is not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act may be followed.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

127

138. Section 306 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,
No.  15  of  1979  shall  not  apply  to  proceedings  in  the
Magistrate’s Court in respect of offences under this Act.

139. For the purposes of this Act, every reference under

any of the other law referred to in this Act –

Non  application
of  section  306  of
the  Code  of
Criminal
Procedure  Act

Reference  to  an
Assistant
Superintendent
of  Police,  etc.

(a)

to  an  Assistant  Superintendent  of  Police  shall  be
construed  as  a  reference  to  an  authorized  officer
specially authorized by the Commission; and

(b)

to a police officer shall be construed as a reference
to an authorized officer of the Commission.

140.  A  person  who  attends  any  trial  or  inquiry  of  the
Commission under this Act to give evidence may be paid out
of the Fund the expenses of attending the trial or inquiry at
such rates and subject to such conditions as are from time to
time determined by the Commission.

Expenses  of
persons
attending  any
trial  or  inquiry

141.  In  the  interest  of  the  national  economy,  to  foster
integrity, transparency and accountability in governance and
to  promote  integrity  in  the  affairs  of  the  private  sector,
considering  the  gravity  and  impact  on  the  State,  the
proceedings in a court for offences under this Act shall be
taken  before  any  other  business  of  the  court  unless  in  the
opinion of the court special circumstances of urgency in such
other business prevents it.

Proceedings  for
offences  under
this  Act  to  be
taken  before  any
other  business  of
the  court

142.  Upon  application  made  in  that  behalf  by  the
Commission or any officer authorized by it, the whole or any
part of the proceedings in any court for offences under this
Act  may  be  held  in  camera,  subject  to  Article  106  of  the
Constitution.

In  camera
proceedings

128

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Giver  of  a
gratification  to
be  a  competent
witness

143. In any proceedings for offences under this Act before
a  court,  the  giver  of  a  gratification  shall  be  a  competent
witness against the person accused of taking the gratification
and shall not be regarded as an accomplice, and the decision
or  finding  of  the  court  or  Commission  shall  not  be  illegal
merely  because  it  proceeds  upon  the  uncorroborated
testimony of such giver.

Spouse  to  be  a
competent
witness

144. Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  any
other  written  law,  in  any  proceedings  against  any  person
under this Act, the spouse of that person shall be a competent
witness.

Legal  obligation
to  give
information

145. (1)  Every  person  required  by  the  Commission  to
give any information on any subject which it is the duty of
the Commission to inquire into under this Act and which is
in  his  power  to  give,  shall  be  legally  bound  to  give  that
information.

Duty  to  comply
with  orders  of
the  Commission

Statutory
obligation  not  to
utter  falsehoods

(2) A  person  shall  comply  with  the  provisions  of
subsection (1), notwithstanding any obligation as to secrecy
or other restriction on the disclosure of information imposed
by any written law, agreement, contract or otherwise.

146. A  person  shall,  comply  with  any  lawful  demand,
notice,  order,  direction  or  request  of  the  Commission,  the
Director-General or the officers thereof in the exercise of the
powers and functions under this Act without any exception.

147. (1)  Every  person  required  by  the  Commission  to
give a statement or other evidence on any subject which it is
the  duty  of  the  Commission  to  inquire  into  under  this  Act
and which is in his power to give, shall be legally bound not
to utter falsehoods:

Provided however, it shall not be an obligation for a person
accused of committing an offence under this Act to give self-
incriminating or confessional statements or evidence and if
so given such statements or evidence shall not be admissible
in any investigation or proceeding under this Act.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

129

(2)  A  person  who  contravenes  the  provisions  of  the
preceding  subsection  shall  be  subject  to  the  provisions  of
section 119 of this Act and be dealt with accordingly.

(3) Where in the course of a trial for an offence under this
Act, any witness contradicts either expressly or by necessary
implication  the  statement  previously  given  by  him  in  the
course  of  any  investigation  conducted  by  the  Commission
under this Act, or the statement previously given by him in
the course of any investigation conducted by a Commission
of Inquiry appointed under the Commission of Inquiry Act
(Chapter  393)  or  by  a  Commission  appointed  under  the
Special Presidential Commission of Inquiry Law, No. 7 of
1978 on any material point, it shall be lawful for the presiding
Judge or Magistrate if he considers it safe and just in all the
circumstances  to  act  upon  such  statement  where  such
statement is corroborated in material particulars by evidence
from an independent source and to have such witness at the
conclusion of such trial tried before such court upon a charge
sheet, or if such court is the High Court, tried on an indictment
filed by the Director-General, for intentionally giving false
evidence in a stage of a judicial proceeding:

Provided however, that it shall not be necessary for the
presiding Judge to discredit the witness in toto, before acting
under this section.

(4) At any trial under subsection (3), it shall be sufficient
to prove that the accused made statements contradictory to
those alleged in the indictment or charge sheet and it shall
not be necessary to prove which of such statements is false.

(5) The presiding Judge or Magistrate may, if he considers
it expedient, adjourn the trial of any accused under subsection
(3) for such period as he may think fit and in any such case
the accused shall be remanded until the conclusion of such
trial:

130

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

Provided  that,  the  Court  of  Appeal  may  in  exceptional
circumstances  release  such  person  on  bail  pending  the
conclusion of the trial.

(6) Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  any

written law –

(a)

an affidavit or sworn statement; or

(b)

any book, document, cheque, record or register or a
certified copy thereof or of any entry in any such
book,  document,  record  or  register  produced,
delivered  or  furnished  to  the  Commission  in  the
course  of  an  investigation  conducted  by  it  under
this Act,

shall be relevant and admissible at the trial of any person for
an offence under this Act and shall be prima facie proof of
the fact of its execution and the contents therein.

148. Every  officer  of  the  Commission  shall,  for  the
purposes of this Act, be deemed to be always on duty when
required to perform his duties or functions and may perform
the duties or functions and exercise the powers conferred on
him  under  this  Act  or  under  any  other  written  law  at  any
place within or outside Sri Lanka.

149. (1) All offences under this Act shall be congnizable
and non-bailable and where any person suspected or accused
of, being concerned in committing or having committed an
offence under this Act, appears, is brought before or produces
or surrenders before a Magistrate shall grant bail as per the
provisions of the Bail Act, No. 30 of 1997:

Provided that any person detected of having committed
an offence under this Act consisting of soliciting, accepting
or offering a gratification is brought before or produced or
surrenders  before  any  Magistrate  with  a  certificate  of  the
Director-General confirming such detection, the Magistrate
shall remand such person until the conclusion of the trail:

Officers  always
on  duty

Bail

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

131

Provided however, that the Magistrate may, in exceptional
circumstances  and  for  reasons  to  be  recorded  release  such
person on bail at any time prior to the conclusion of the trial.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), in
any  proceeding  under  such  subsection,  where  the
Commission informs the Magistrate that it does not intend to
institute  proceedings  against  the  person  in  custody,  such
person shall be discharged forthwith.

150. (1) When determining the term of imprisonment to
be imposed on a person convicted of having committed an
offence under this Act, the following factors shall be taken
into  account  as  aggravating  factors  which  warrant  the
imposing of an enhanced term of imprisonment, subject to
the provisions of this Act: -

Sentencing
guidelines

(a) whether the commission of the offence has had an

adverse impact on the community;

(b) whether any financial and material loss caused to
the  Government  of  Sri  Lanka  and  to  the  general
public;

(c) whether  any  financial  and  other  resources  are
required  for  the  reparation  and  restoration  of  the
damages caused; and

(d) whether the commission of the offence has adversely

affected the country.

(2)  When  determining  the  term  of  imprisonment  to  be
imposed  on  a  person  convicted  of  having  committed  an
offence under this Act, the following factors shall be taken
into account as mitigating factors which warrant a reduced
term of imprisonment subject to the provisions of this Act: -

(a)

expression of remorse;

(b)

time period spent in detention or remand;

Civil  liability  for
contravention  of
certain  sections

132

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(c)

coercion or duress under which the offence had been
committed;

(d) voluntarily providing of reparation by the accused

to the victims of the offence; or

(e) public denouncement of the offences in respect of

which the accused was convicted of guilty.

151. (1) Nothing  in  this  Act  shall  be  construed  as
affecting the rights of a person who suffers loss or damage by
reason of or by relying on the conduct of another person who
has  contravened  the  provisions  of  this  Act  to  recover  the
amount  of  loss  or  damage  suffered  by,  instituting  civil
proceedings against the other person whether or not the other
person  has  been  charged  with  an  offence  in  respect  of  the
contravention  or  whether  or  not  a  contravention  has  been
proved in a prosecution.

(2)  Nothing  in  subsection  (1)  shall  be  construed  as
affecting the liability under any other law in respect of the
conduct  constituting  the  contravention.

Exemptions

152. (1) The Commission shall be exempt from payment

of any duty, levy, rate, charge, fee or tax.

(2) No registration fee shall be payable in respect of any
document signed or executed by the Commission under which
the Commission is a beneficiary.

(3) The court shall issue proceedings and certified copies

of journal entries to the Commission free of charge.

Jurisdiction

153. (1) The provisions of this Act shall apply to-

(a)

any citizen of Sri Lanka, who commits an offence
under this Act within or outside Sri Lanka;

(b)

any person who commits an offence under this Act –

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

133

(i) wholly or partly, in Sri Lanka;

(ii) in or over territorial waters of Sri Lanka;

(iii) in the airspace of Sri Lanka;

(iv) on-board or in respect of an aircraft or vessel
registered in Sri Lanka or belonging to or used
by the Government of Sri Lanka;

(v) wholly or partly within the office premises of a
diplomatic mission of Sri Lanka, or a Consular
Post or office of Sri Lanka, or at the residence of
the Head of such diplomatic mission or consular
post  or  at  the  residence  of  any  diplomatic  or
consular officer or any other employee of such
mission or post subject to the provisions of the
Diplomatic Privileges Act, No. 9 of 1996; or

(vi) wholly  or  partly  within  the  office  premises
situated outside Sri Lanka of a statutory board
of the Government of Sri Lanka or within the
residence  of  an  employee  of  such  statutory
board; or

(c)

any person, who commits an offence under this Act,
within or outside Sri Lanka in respect of –

(i) a citizen of Sri Lanka; or

(ii) an asset owned by the Government of Sri Lanka.

(2) A citizen of Sri Lanka shall be liable to punishment
under this Act and not otherwise, for every offence thereof,
committed  outside  Sri  Lanka  of  which  he  shall  be  guilty,
whether or not such citizen enjoys diplomatic immunity in
respect of such act or omission, which is granted by a foreign
State by reason of his diplomatic status in such State.

Extradition

134

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) Nothing in this section shall be construed, as affecting
the liability of any of Sri Lankan citizen under the laws of the
country in which such act was done or omitted to be done in
respect of such act or omission.

154.  (1)  The  Extradition  Law  No.  8  of  1977  is  hereby
amended  in  Schedule  to  that  Law,  by  the  addition
immediately  after  item  ………  of  the  items  appearing
immediately before Part B of that Schedule, of the following
item: —

“(  ) An offence covered by the Anti-Corruption
Act, No 9  of 2023;”.

(2) Where there is an extradition arrangement made by the
Government of Sri Lanka with any State in force on the date
on which this Act comes into operation, such arrangement
shall be deemed, for the purposes of the Extradition Law, No.
8 of 1977, to include provision for extradition in respect of
the offences under this Act.

(3) Where there is no extradition arrangement made by
the Government of Sri Lanka with any State, the Commission
may,  by  Order  published  in  the  Gazette,  treat  the  United
Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC), for the
purposes  of  the  Extradition  Law,  No.  8  of  1977,  as  an
extradition  arrangement  made  by  the  Government  of  Sri
Lanka with that State, providing for extradition in respect of
the offences specified in this Act.

(4)  Where  a  request  is  made  to  the  Government  of  Sri
Lanka by or on behalf of the Government of another State for
the  extradition  of  any  person  accused  or  convicted  of  an
offence under this Act, the Commission shall, on behalf of
the  Government  of  Sri  Lanka,  forthwith  notify  the
Government  of  the  requesting  State,  of  the  measures  the
Government of Sri Lanka has taken, or proposes to take, for
the prosecution or extradition of that person for that offence.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

135

155. The provisions of the Mutual Assistance in Criminal
Matters Act, No. 25 of 2002 shall, wherever it is necessary for
the  investigation  and  prosecution  of  an  offence  under  this
Act, and for any of the objectives under the said Act mutatis
mutandis  be  applicable  in  respect  of  the  provision  of
assistance between the Government of Sri Lanka and other
States designated under the aforesaid Act.

Mutual  Legal
Assistance

156. (1) The Minister may make regulations in consultation
with the Commission in respect of matters required by this
Act to be prescribed  or  in  respect of which regulations are
authorized to be made.

Regulations

(2)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  shall  be
published  in  the  Gazette  and  shall  come  into  operation  on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified  in  the  regulation.

(3)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  shall,  within
three  months  of  its  publication  in  the  Gazette,  be  brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of  such  disapproval,  but  without  prejudice  to  anything
previously  done  thereunder.

(4)  Notification  of  the  date  on  which  any  regulation  is

deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

157. (1) The Commission may make rules in respect of all
or any matter for which rules are authorized or required by
this Act to be made.

Power  of  the
Commission  to
make  rules

(2) Every rule made under subsection (1) shall come into

force upon publication in the Gazette.

158. (1) The financial year of the Commission shall be the
period  of  twelve  months  commencing  on  the  first  day  of
January each year.

Financial  year

(2) The Commission shall cause proper books of accounts
to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Commission.

136

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3)  The  provision  of  Article  154  of  the  Constitution
relating to the audit of accounts of Commissions referred to
in the Schedule to Article 41B shall apply to the audit of the
accounts of the Commission.

Reports

159.  (1)  The  Commission  shall  prepare  reports  of  its
activities  as  often  as  it  may  consider  necessary,  and  shall
prepare at least one report in each calendar year.

(2)  The  Commission  shall  prepare  quarterly  in  each

calendar year, its performance evaluation reports.

(3) The Commission shall cause every report so prepared
to be sent to the President who shall cause the same to be
placed before Parliament.

(4)  The  reports  of  the  Commission  placed  before
Parliament shall be made available to the public through the
official website of the Commission with due regard to privacy
and personal data.

Application  of
Article  140  of  the
Constitution

160. (1) The jurisdiction vested in the Court of Appeal by
Article 140 of the Constitution shall, in respect of applications
in which relief is sought against the Commission be exercised
by the Supreme Court and not by the Court of Appeal.

(2)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  subsection  (1),  no
injunction or enjoining order shall be granted by any court
restraining or staying, or having the effect of restraining or
staying, the Commission, from commencing or continuing,
the  conduct  of  an  investigation  under  this  Act  or  from
exercising any of the powers conferred on it by this Act or
from giving any direction under this Act.

Provisions  of  this
Act  to  prevail
over  other  law

161. Where the provisions of this Act are in conflict or are
inconsistent  with  any  other  written  law,  the  provisions  of
this Act shall prevail.

Interpretation

162. (1) For the purpose of this Act,–

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

137

(a) property which is held by or in the name of a person
in  trust  for  or  for  the  benefit  of  any  other  person
shall  be  deemed  to  be  indirectly  owned  by  such
other person; and

(b)

every reference in this Act to the Government shall
be  construed  in  a  mannar  that  does  not  cause
interference with the judiciary and shall be subject
to Article 111C of the Constitution.”;

(2) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires –

“adverse  conditions  of  employment”  shall  include
harassment by co-workers. It is treated as done
by the employer. It is immaterial whether such
act  is  done  with  the  knowledge  or  approval  of
the employer;

“associated  offences”  means  offences  referred  to  in
section  41  of  this  Act  other  than  any  offence
specified in this Act;

“bribery” means the offer, solicitation or acceptance
of  any  gratification  in  contravention  of  any
provision of Part III of this Act;

“child” includes a step-child or a child who has been
adopted  under  the  Adoption  of  Children
Ordinance (Chapter 61);

“Commissioner of Local Government” includes any
Deputy Commissioner of Local Government and
any  Assistant  Commissioner  of  Local
Government;

“complaint”  shall  mean  any  written  or  oral
communication with statement received through
electronic means or otherwise to the Commission
in relation to the commission of an offence under
this Act in which the communicator divulges his

138

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

identity.  This  does  not  include  any  material
which comes to the attention of the Commission
through the channels stipulated in paragraph (a),
(c), or (d) of subsection (1) of section 42;

“documents” include information recorded in any form
and, in relation to information recorded otherwise
than in legible form, references to its production
including references to producing a copy of the
information in legible form;

“electronic 

communication”  means 

any
communication made by means of data message
generated, sent, received or stored by electronic,
magnetic, optical or other similar means;

“executive” when used with reference to a trade union
has  the  same  meaning  as  in  the  Trade  Unions
Ordinance (Chapter 138);

“foreign public official” means an individual who -

(a) holds  a  legislative,  administrative  or
judicial  position  of  any  kind,  whether
appointed  or  elected,  of  a  country  or
territory  outside  Sri  Lanka  (or  any
subdivision of such a country or territory);

(b)

exercises a public function –

(i)

for  or  on  behalf  of  a  country  or
territory  outside  Sri  Lanka  or  any
subdivision  of  such  a  country  or
territory, or

(ii)

for  any  public  agency  or  public
enterprise of that country or territory
or subdivision, or

(c)

is  an  official  or  agent  of  a  public
international  organisation;

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

139

“Government” includes the Legislature, Executive and

the  Judiciary;

“gratification” includes -

(a) money  or  any  gift,  loan,  fee,  reward,
commission,  valuable  security  or  other
property  or  interest  in  property  of  any
description,  whether  movable,  intangible
and unreal or immovable;

For  the  purposes  of  this  paragraph,
“money”  includes  currency  which  is  in
digital or virtual form recognized as legal
tender,  whether  or  not  such  currency  is
recognized in Sri Lanka.

(b)

any office, employment or contract;

(c)

any  payment,  release,  discharge  or
liquidation of any loan, obligation or other
liability  whatsoever  whether  in  whole  or
in part;

(d)

sexual favour;

(e)

any other service, favour or advantage of
any  description  whatsoever  including
protection  from  any  penalty  or  disability
incurred or apprehended  from any action
or  proceedings  of  a  disciplinary  or  penal
nature,  whether  or  not  already  instituted,
including the exercise, or the forbearance
from the exercise of any right or any official
power or duty; and

(f)

any offer, undertaking or promise of any
gratification  within  the  meaning  of  the
preceding paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e);

“high  risk  categories”  means  categories  that  are

prescribed by regulations as such;

‘information’  for  the  purposes  of  section  42  and  43
means anything except a complaint and material
received under the provisions of paragraphs (c)
and (d) of subsection (1) of section 42 and in all
other circumstances ‘information’ shall carry its
generic  meaning;

140

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

“informer” includes a whistleblower;

“judicial  officer”  shall  have  the  same  meaning
assigned to such expression in the Constitution;

“listed  Company”  shall  have  the  same  meaning
assigned  to  such  expression  in  the  Companies
Act, No.07 of 2007;

“local authority” means a Municipal Council, Urban
Council  or  Pradeshiya  Sabha  and  includes  any
authority created or established by or under any
law to exercise, perform and discharge, powers,
duties and functions, corresponding to, or similar
to  the  powers,  duties  and  functions  exercised,
performed and discharged by any such Council
or Sabha;

“local or foreign expert” includes any expert specified
in  section  45  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance
(Chapter 14);

“Minister” means the Minister assigned the subject of
Justice under Article 44 or 45 of the Constitution;

“non-intimate sample” means—

(a)

a sample of head hair;

(b)

(c)

a sample taken from a nail or from under a
nail;

a swab taken from any part, other than a
private part, of a person’s body or from the
mouth but not any other body orifice;

(d)

saliva; or

(e)

an impression of any part of a person’s body
other than—

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

141

(i)

an impression of a private part;

(ii)

an impression of the face; or

(iii)

the  identifying  particulars;

“private part” in relation to a person’s body, means
the genital or anal area and includes the breasts
in the case of a woman;

“identifying particulars” include photographs, finger-
prints, palm-prints, sole-prints, toe-prints and the
weight and height measurements of a person;

“office-bearers” in relation to a recognized political
party  means  the  President,  Vice-President,
Secretary  or  a  member  of  the  Executive
committee of such recognized political party and
any other person who is duly empowered to give
directions in regard to such political party, and
includes  the  leader  of  such  political  party,
howsoever  designated,  whether  as  Patron,
President, Advisor or otherwise;

“person” includes both natural and legal persons;

“person assisting the Commission” for the purposes
of  this  Act  means  any  person  who  assists  the
Commission in any manner;

“prescribed” means prescribed by regulations;

“private  sector  entity”  means  a  specified  business
enterprise as defined in section 5 of the Sri Lanka
Accounting and Auditing Standards Act, No. 15
of 1995;

“Provincial  Council”  means  a  Provincial  Council
established  by  Chapter  XVIIA  of  the
Constitution;

142

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

“public  authority”  includes  a  Government  Ministry,
Government  Department,  Provincial  Council,
local authority or public corporation;

“public corporation” means any corporation, board or
other body which was or is established by or under
any written law other than the Companies Act,
No.  07  of  2007  with  capital  partly  or  wholly
provided  by  the  Government  by  way  of  grant,
loan  or  other  form,  and  includes  all  scheduled
institutions under this Act;

“public  international  organisation”  means  an

organisation whose members are —

(a)

countries or territories outside Sri Lanka;

(b) governments  of  countries  or  territories

outside Sri Lanka; and

(c)

a mixture of any of the above;

“public officer” shall have the same meaning assigned

to such expression in the Constitution;

“public  official”  include  the  President,  the  Prime
Minister, a Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers,
a  Minister  appointed  under  Article  45  of  the
Constitution,  Speaker,  Deputy  Speaker,
Chairman of a Committee, Deputy Chairman of
a Committee, a Deputy Minister, the Governor
of a Province, a Minister of the Board of Ministers
of a Provincial Council, a Member of Parliament,
a  Judge  of  the  Supreme  Court,  a  Judge  of  the
Court of Appeal, Judge of the High Court or a
Judge, presiding officer, or member of any other
Court  of  first  Instance,  tribunal  or  institution
created and established for the administration of
Justice or for the adjudication of any labour or

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

143

other dispute, every officer, official or employee
of the State or any Chairman, member, officer,
official  or  employee  of  any  Independent
Commission established by the Constitution, or
any  other  diplomatic  agent  appointed  by  the
Constitution, or any Chairman, member, officer,
official  or  employee  of  any  Commission
appointed under any other law; or any Chairman,
director, Governor, member, officer, official or
employee, whether in receipt of remuneration or
not, of a Provincial Council, local authority or of
a  scheduled  institution,  or  of  a  company
incorporated under the Companies Act, No. 07
of 2007, in which over twenty five per centum of
the shares are held by the Government, a member
of a Provincial Public Service, every juror, every
licensed  surveyor  and  every  arbitrator  or  other
person  to  whom  any  cause  or  matter  has  been
referred for decision or report by any court or any
other  competent  public  authority:

Provided that, where any local authority has
been  dissolved  and  the  administration  of  the
affairs of that authority has been vested in any
person,  every  employee  of  that  local  authority
immediately before its dissolution who continues
in  employment  after  such  dissolution,  shall  be
deemed for the purpose of this Act, to be a public
official;

“Registrar  General  of  Lands”  means  the  Registrar
General of Lands appointed under section 2 of
the  Registration  of  Documents  Ordinance
(Chapter 117);

“Registrar  General  of  Title”  means  the  Registrar
General of Title appointed under section 3 of the
Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998;

“scheduled  institution”  means  any  public  authority
or  public  corporation  and  includes  any  private
sector entity or any body-

144

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(a)

(b)

in which any such public authority or public
corporation; or

in  which  more  than  one  such  public
authority or public corporation,

in the aggregate, holds, not less than twenty five
percent of the shares;

“sexual favour” means -

(a)

sexual intercourse; or

(b)

any  act  that  may  not  amount  to  sexual
intercourse,  but  may  amount  to  or
constitute  physical,  verbal  or  non-verbal
conduct of a sexual nature, including the
exposure of a private body part or any act
performed by the use of information and
communication  technology  or  any  other
means.

“sporting  event”  means  any  event  or  contest  in  any
sport between individuals or teams or in which
an  animal  competes  and  which  is  usually
attended by the public and is governed by rules
which include the constitution, rules or code of
conduct of any sporting body which stages any
sporting event or of any regulatory body under
whose constitution, rules or code of conduct the
sporting event is conducted;

“staff officer” means any employee of the Government
or  a  Provincial  Council  or  a  local  authority  or
any employee of a public corporation as may be
specified by rules made under section 157;

“victim” means a person who has suffered any injury,
harm  whether  physical  or  mental,  emotional,
economic  or  other  loss  as  a  result  of  an  act  or
omission which constitute an offence under this
Act;

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

145

“whistleblower” shall include persons assisting such
whistleblower,  persons  providing  supporting
information  to  such  whistleblower,  a  family
member or dependant of such whistleblower or
any  other  person  of  significant  importance  to
such whistleblower;

“witness” for purposes of section 75 means any person

who—

(a) has  provided  information  or  lodged  a
complaint  with  any  law  enforcement
officer  and  based  upon  such  information
or  complaint,  an  investigation  or  inquiry
could  or  has  commenced  or  is  likely  to
commence, in connection with the alleged
commission of an offence under this Act;

(b)

in the course of an investigation or inquiry
conducted  by  the  Commission  or  a  law
enforcement  authority  into  the  alleged
commission of an offence under this Act,
has  provided  information  or  made  a
statement containing an account of matters
in respect to which such person had been
questioned;

(c) has  provided  an  affidavit  or  submitted  a
statement in support of a complaint made
or  any  legal  action  instituted  by  the
Commission;

(d) has  provided 

information  or  any

communication to the Commission;

(e) has reasonable grounds to believe that he
shall  be  summoned  by  a  court  or  the
Commission to make a statement or testify
judicial  or  quasi-judicial
in  any 

146

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

proceedings  against  a  person,  based  on
information provided or a statement made
to  a  law  enforcement  authority  or  the
Commission by such person;

(f) has received summons from a court or the
Commission to make a statement, testify
or produce any document, report or object
in any judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding
before such court or the Commission; or

(g) being a public officer, has investigated into
the alleged commission of an offence or an
alleged  infringement  of  a  fundamental
right or the violation of a human right,

and includes a victim of a crime, a child witness,
the parent or guardian of a child witness, a family
member  or  a  dependant  of  such  witness  or  any
other  person  of  significant  importance  to  such
person, an expert witness, a person who has been
summoned  to  testify  before  a  court  or  the
Commission  on  behalf  of  a  person  suspected  or
accused of the alleged commission of an offence
under this Act; and

“written”  shall  include  electronically  generated

documents.

PART V

TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS AND SAVINGS

Repeals,  savings
and  transitional
provisions

163. (1) (a) The  Commission 

Investigate
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption Act,
No. 19 of 1994;

to 

(b) Declaration of Assets and Liabilities Law,

No. 1 of 1975; and

(c) The Bribery Act (Chapter 26),

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

147

are hereby repealed (hereinafter referred to as the “repealed
Acts”).

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  repeal  of  the  Commission  to
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption Act, No. 19
of 1994-

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

the Commission established under the Commission
to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption
Act, No. 19 of 1994 and functioning as such on the
date of commencement of this Act shall be deemed
to be the Commission for the purposes of this Act
until a new Commission is established under Part I
of  this  Act,  and  the  members  holding  office
immediately prior to the date of commencement of
this Act shall be deemed to have been appointed as
such under this Act and continue to hold office until
new members are appointed;

all  regulations  and  rules  made  under  the  repealed
Acts and are in force on the day immediately prior
to the date of commencement of this Act and not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act shall be
deemed to be regulations and rules made under this
Act and shall continue to be valid;

all  contracts,  agreements  and  other  instruments
made under the repealed Acts and subsisting on the
day immediately prior to the date of commencement
of  this  Act,  shall  be  deemed  to  be  contracts,
agreements  and  other  instruments  made  by  the
Commission under this Act;

all  suits,  actions,  and  other  legal  proceedings
instituted or  inquiries or investigations commenced
by  or  against  the  Commission  to  Investigate
Allegations  of  Bribery  or  Corruption  established
under  the  Commission  to  Investigate  Allegations
of Bribery or  Corruption Act, No. 19 of 1994 and
pending on the day, immediately prior to the date
of commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be
suits, actions and other legal proceedings instituted

148

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

or  inquiries  or  investigations  commenced  by  or
against the Commission under this Act and may be
continued after the appointed date as if they were
suits, actions  and other legal proceedings instituted
or  inquiries  or  investigations  commenced  and
continued under this Act;

all movable and immovable property vested in the
Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery
or Corruption established under the Commission to
Investigate  Allegations  of  Bribery  or    Corruption
Act,  No.  19  of  1994  and  existing  on  the  day
immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act,  shall,  with  effect  from  the  date  of
commencement  of  this  Act,  be  vested  with  the
Commission;

all  contraventions  or  proceedings  initiated  under
the provisions of the repealed Acts, regulations or
rules made thereunder prior to the commencement
of  this  Act,  shall  be  offences  committed  or
proceedings initiated under the repealed Acts and
be tried accordingly;

all  interests,  rights,  assets,  obligations,  debts  and
liabilities  of  the  Commission  to  Investigate
Allegations  of  Bribery  or  Corruption  established
under  the  Commission  to  Investigate  Allegations
of Bribery or  Corruption Act, No. 19 of 1994 prior
to the date of commencement of this Act, shall be
deemed with effect from the date of commencement
of  this  Act  to  be  the  interests,  rights,  assets,
obligations, debts and liabilities of the Commission;
and

all  officers  and  officials  of  the  Commission  to
Investigate  Allegations  of  Bribery  or  Corruption
established  under  the  Commission  to  Investigate
Allegations of Bribery or  Corruption Act, No. 19 of
1994  holding  office  prior  to  the  date  of
commencement of this Act, shall be deemed with
effect from the date of commencement of this Act to
be  the  officers  and  officials  of  the  Commission
established  under  this  Act,  on  terms  not  less

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

149

favourable  than  the  terms  and  conditions  of
employment to which they were entitled under the
Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery
or    Corruption  Act,  No.  19  of  1994,  and  shall
communicate  to  the  Commission,  within  three
months  of  the  establishment  of  the  Commission,
whether  they  opt  to  join  the  service  of  the
Commission:

  provided that,

(i)

(ii)

every officer and official who opts to join
the  service  of  the  Commission  shall,  for
purposes of calculating pension and other
retirement benefits only, be deemed to have
continued  in  office  as  a  public  officer  in
the Commission to Investigate Allegations
of  Bribey  or  Corruption  estalished  under
the Commission to Investigate Allegations
of Bribery or  Corruption Act, No. 19 of
1994  from  the  date  on  which  he  was
employed  by  that  Commission  until  the
end  of  his  period  of  service  in  the
Commission established under this Act and
shall,  if  his  period  of  service  in  the
Commission  when  added  to  his  previous
period  of  services  as  a  public  officer
amounts  to  twenty  years  or  more,  be
eligible, at the end of his period of service
in the Commission, for the grant of pension
and  retirement  benefits  which  may  be
applicable  to  such  officers  and  officials
under the provisions of any other written
law including the Minutes on Pensions;

every  officer  and  official  who  opts  for
voluntary resignation from the service of
the Commission, shall be entitled to such
compensation as shall be paid in terms of a
Voluntary Retrenchment Scheme as shall
be  prescribed  by  the  Minister  and  be
entitled  to  pension  and  other  retirement
benefits which may be applicable to such
officers and officials under the provisions
of any written law including the Minutes
on Pensions,

150

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

(3) All investigations under the repealed Acts commenced
by  the  Commission  under  the  Commission  to  Investigate
Allegations  of  Bribery  or  Corruption  Act,  No.19  of  1994,
and pending on the day preceding the appointed date shall
be  deemed  to  be  investigations  commenced  by  the
Commission under this Act, and all such investigations may
be  continued  after  the  appointed  date,  as  if  they  were
investigations  commenced  and  continued  on  the  direction
of  the  Commission,  and  all  statements  and  documents
furnished to the Commission in the course of investigations
or certified copies thereof shall be admissible in proceedings
instituted under the Commission to Investigate Allegations
of  Bribery  or  Corruption  Act,  No.19  of  1994,  as  if  such
investigations  were  conducted  and  the  proceedings  were
instituted under this Act.

(4)  Notwithstanding  the  repeal  of  the  Commission  to
Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption Act, No. 19
of 1994, the Bribery Act (Chapter 26) and the Declaration of
Assets and Liabilities Law No.1 of 1975 –

(a)

(b)

(c)

every  reference  to  the  Commission  to  Investigate
Allegations of Bribery or Corruption Act, No. 19 of
1994 in any other written law shall be construed as
a reference to this Act;

every reference to the Bribery Act (Chapter 26) in
any other written law shall be construed as referring
to  the  corresponding  provisions  contained  in  this
Act; and

every  reference  to  the  Declaration  of  Assets  and
Liabilities Law, No. 1 of 1975 in any other written
law shall be construed as a reference to this Act.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case  of
inconsistency

164. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

SCHEDULE      A

[Section  41]

1. Sections  372  and  378  of  the
Penal  Code  (Chapter  19)

- extortion

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

151

2. Section  386  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

- dishonest  misappropriation  of

property

3. Section  388  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

- criminal  breach  of  trust

4. Section  389  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

- punishment  for  criminal  breach

5. Section  390  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

- criminal  breach  of  trust  by  a

carrier,  &c.

of  trust

6. Section  391  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

- criminal  breach  of  trust  by  a  clerk

or  servant

7. Section  392  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

- criminal  breach  of  trust  by  a
public  servant  or  by  bankers,
merchant  or  agent

8. Section  392A  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

- criminal  breach  of  trust  by  a

public servant in respect of money
or  balance  of  money

9. Sections  398  to  403  of  the
Penal  Code  (Chapter  19)

- cheating

10.  Section  406  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

- dishonest  or  fraudulent  execution
of  a  deed  of  transfer  containing  a
false  statement  of  consideration

11.Section  452  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

-

forgery

12.  Section  453  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

- making  a  false  document

13.  Section  454  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

- punishment  for  forgery

14.  Section  455  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

-

forgery  of  a  record  of  a  court  of
justice  or  of  a  public  register  or
births,  &c.

152

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

15.  Section  457  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

-

forgery  for  the  purpose  of
cheating

16.  Section  458  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

- a  forged  document

17.  Section  459  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

- using  as  genuine  a  forged

document

18.  Section  462  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

- having  possession  of  a  forged

record  or  valuable  security  or  will
known  to  be  forged,  with  intent
to  use  it  as  genuine;  and

19.  Section  467  of  the  Penal

Code  (Chapter  19)

-

falsification  of  accounts

SCHEDULE   B

[Section  41]

1. any  offence  under  Chapter  XI  of  the  Penal  Code  (Chapter  19);

2. any  offence  under  the  Offences  Against  Public  Property  Act,  No.

12  of  1982;  and

3. any  offence  under  the  Computer  Crime  Act,  No.  24  of  2007.

Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023

153

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

