PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

INTERNATIONAL  INSTITUTE  OF  THERAVADHA
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 32 OF 2024

[Certified on 18th of  June, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 20, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs.24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

International  Institute  of  Theravadha
 (Incorporation)  Act, No. 32 of 2024

1

[Certified on 18th of June, 2024]

L.D.—O. (Inc.) 4/2023

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE OF
THERAVADHA

WHEREAS  an  institute  called  and  known  as  the
“International Institute of Theravadha” has heretofore been
established  in  Sri  Lanka  for  the  purpose  of  effectually
carrying out its objects and transacting all matters connected
with the said institute according to the rules agreed to by its
members:

Preamble

AND WHEREAS the said institute has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was established and has applied to be incorporated
and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to  grant  the  said
application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the International Institute of

Short  title

Theravadha (Incorporation) Act, No. 32 of 2024

Incorporation  of
the  International
Institute  of
Theravadha

2.  From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such  and  so  many  persons  as  now  are  members  of  the
“International Institute of Theravadha”  (hereinafter referred
to  as  the  “Institute”)  and  shall  hereafter  be    admitted  as
members of the body corporate hereby constituted, shall have
perpetual  succession  under  the  name  and  style  of    the
“International Institute of Theravadha” (hereinafter referred
to as the  “body corporate”), and by that name may sue and be
sued with full power and  authority to have, and use a common
seal and to  alter the same at its pleasure.

2

International  Institute  of  Theravadha
 (Incorporation)  Act, No. 32 of 2024

General  objects
of  the  body
corporate

3. (1) The general objects for which the body corporate is

constituted are hereby declared to be -

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

to train Buddhist monks and lay devotees to be
enriched  with  doctrinal  knowledge  and
knowledge in meditation that is required to attain
on their own the ultimate liberation of Nibbana,
according  to  the  Buddhist  teachings;

to train Buddhist monks and lay devotees capable
of  guiding  other  Buddhist  monks  and  lay
devotees  to  attain  the  ultimate  liberation  of
Nibbana,  according  to the Buddhist teachings;

to train Buddhist monks to perform formal acts
of discipline  (vinayakammas),  according  to the
Theravadha Buddhist teachings, in order to sustain
the Sasana;

to publish and translate books and any other reading
materials related to the Theravadha teaching; and

to  train  and  use  the  missionaries  in  order  to
propagate the dhamma expounded by the Buddha
locally  and  internationally  giving  due  respect  to
the prevailing laws and cultural values; and

subject to any applicable written law, to the extent permitted
by such law.

(2)  In  the  implementation  of  the  objects  specified  in
subsection  (1),  the  body  corporate  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation shall be carried out without any distinction
based  on  race,  religion,  language,  caste,  gender,  political
opinion, place of birth or such other grounds.

Body  corporate
to  ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of
Ministry  or
Department  of
the  Government
or  Provincial
Council

Management  of
the  affairs  of  the
body  corporate

International  Institute  of  Theravadha
 (Incorporation)  Act, No. 32 of 2024

3

4.   The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out
in such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the body Corporate  and any work being carried out
simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or of any Provincial Council.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules
made under section 10, the management and administration
of the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by an
Executive Board consisting of such number of office bearers
as may be specified by the rules made under section 10 of
this Act.

(2) (a) The members of the Executive Board holding office
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall subject to the rules made under paragraph
(b) of this subsection, function as an Interim Board of the
body corporate until the first Executive Board is appointed
or elected in the manner Provided for by rules made under
section 10 of this Act.

(b) Subject to the provisions of section 10, the Interim
Board shall have the power to make rules for the interim
administration of the body corporate and for election or
appointment of the members of the first Executive Board
of the body corporate not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law.

(c) Any decision of the Interim Board shall be taken by

the majority of its members present at such meeting.

 (d) The first Executive Board of the body corporate shall
be  appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

4

International  Institute  of  Theravadha
 (Incorporation)  Act, No. 32 of 2024

(3)  (a)  Every  office  bearer  of  the  Executive  Board
including the patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or
elected for a period of six years and any such office bearer,
patron or advisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or
re-election:

Provided however, any person appointed or elected
as the Chair of the Executive Board shall only be eligible
for  re-appointment  or  re-election  for  one  further  term,
whether consecutive or otherwise.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer,  the  Executive  Board  shall  having  regard  to  the
rules of the body corporate, appoint or elect a person to
fill such vacancy.

(c) The person appointed or elected under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.

Senate  Council
of  the  Body
Corporate

6. There shall be a body established and known as the
Senate Council constituted with Tutor monks and Student
monks of the body corporate to discuss issues related to
Dhamma and Vinaya and decisions taken by the Executive
Board and to forward comments, suggestions, proposals
and recommendations regarding such issues to the body
corporate and the executive board.

General
assembly  of  the
body  corporate

7. (1) The General Assembly of the body corporate is
known as the Supreme board and it shall consist of all the
members of the body corporate.

(2) Subject to the provisions of section 10, the duty of the

General Assembly shall be -

International  Institute  of  Theravadha
 (Incorporation)  Act, No. 32 of 2024

5

to elect the executive board of the body corporate
in  accordance  with  the  ruIes  of  the  body
corporate;

to take decisions with regard to relocating the head
office of the body corporate;

to  take  decisions  in  order  to  dissolve  the  body
corporate;

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

to make and amend rules of the body corporate;

(e)

to make procedures of the general assembly by the
rules of the body corporate;

(f)

to establish an executive board in order to carry out
the executive affairs of the body corporate;

(g)

(h)

to elect the members of the executive board from
the General Assembly by an election; and

to make by rules, the composition of the executive
board,  the  sub-committees  coming  under  such
board,  their  functions  and  qualifications  and
appointments  of  the  members  of  such  sub-
committees.

8.  (1)  There  shall  be  a  committee  known  as  the
Disciplinary Committee to look into all the disciplinary
matters  pertaining  to  all  the  members  and  trained  and
trainees of the body corporate.

Disciplinary
Committee  of
the  Body
Corporate

(2) The composition, powers, functions and duties of the
disciplinary committee shall be specified by rules made under
section 10 of this Act.

6

International  Institute  of  Theravadha
 (Incorporation)  Act, No. 32 of 2024

Powers  of  the
body  corporate

  9. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and things as are necessary
or desirable for the achievement of the objects of the body
corporate or any one of them, including the power -

(a)

(b)

to purchase rent, construct and renovate lands or
buildings which may be required for the purposes
of the body corporate and to deal with or dispose
of the same as determined by the executive Board
with a view to promoting the objects of the body
corporate;

to  enter  into  and  perform  or  carry  out,  whether
directly or through any officer or agent authorized
in  that  behalf  by  the  body  corporate,  all  such
contracts or agreements as may be necessary for the
attainment  of  the  objects  or  the  exercise  of  the
powers of the body corporate;

(c)

to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind:

Provided that, the Executive Board shall obtain the
prior  written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources,  in  respect  of  all  foreign  grants,  gifts  or
donations made to the body corporate;

(d)

to  make,  draw,  accept,  discount,  endorse,
negotiate,  buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,
cheques,  promissory  notes  and  other  negotiable
instruments  and  to  open,  operate,  maintain  and
close accounts in any bank;

International  Institute  of  Theravadha
 (Incorporation)  Act, No. 32 of 2024

7

to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for  the  purposes  of  the  body  corporate,  in  such
manner as the Executive Board may determine;

to  undertake,  accept,  excecute,  perform  and
administer any lawful trust having objects similar
to  the  body  corporate  or  any  real  or  personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;

to  appoint,  employ,  dismiss  or  terminate  the
services  of officers  and  other  employees  of  the
body  corporate  and exercise  disciplinary  control
over  them  and  to  pay  them  such  salaries,
allowances and gratuities as may be determined
by the body corporate in terms of the rules made
under section 10;

to  assist  the  relevant  authorities  to  organize
lectures, seminars and conferences with a view to
promoting the objects of the body corporate;

to  liaise  and  co-ordinate  with  other  local  and
foreign institutions having similar objects to that
of the body corporate; and

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

(j)

to train officers and other employees in Sri Lanka
or abroad for the purposes of the body corporate.

10. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the body corporate and by
a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and  voting,  to  make  rules,  not  inconsistent  with  the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters: -

Rules  of  the
body  corporate

(a)

the  classification  of  membership,  admission
withdrawal, expulsion  or  resignation  of  members
and fees payable by the members;

8

International  Institute  of  Theravadha
 (Incorporation)  Act, No. 32 of 2024

(b) number  of  office  bearers  of  the  body  corporate,
executive  board,  senate  council  and  disciplinary
committee and qualifications and disqualifications
to be a member of the body corporate, the executive
board, senate council or disciplinary committee as
the case may be;

(c)

(d)

(e)

the  election  of  the  office  bearers,  vacation  of  or
removal from office of the office bearers of the body
corporate, executive board, senate council and the
functions of such office bearers;

the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties of various officers and other
employees of the body corporate;

the  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  summoning
and holding of meetings of the body corporate and
of  the  Executive  Board,  senate  council  and  the
disciplinary  committee  or  notices  and  agenda  of
such  meetings,  the  quorum  and  the  conduct  of
business thereat;

(f)

the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate; and

(g) generally, the management of the affairs of the body
corporate  and  the accomplishment of its, objects
and dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be published
in  the  Gazette  within  three  months  upon  making  of  such
rules and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

International  Institute  of  Theravadha
 (Incorporation)  Act, No. 32 of 2024

9

(4) Every rule made by the body  corporate  shall, within
three months after its publication in the Gazette, by brought
brought  before Parliament for approval. Any rule which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously  done  thereunder.

(5)  Notification  of  the  date  on  which  any  such  rule  is
deemed  to  be  so  rescinded  under  subsection  (4)  shall  be
published in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all times

be subject to the rules of the body corporate.

11.  The  Executive  Board  shall  maintain  a  register  of
members in which name, address and other essential details
of the members shall be inscribed.

Register  of
members

12. (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

Fund  of  the
body  corporate

(2)  All  moneys  received  by  way  of  gifts,  bequests,
donations,  subscriptions,  contributions,  fees  or  grants  for
and on account of the body corporate shall be deposited in
one or more banks approved by the Executive Board to the
credit  of  the  body  corporate  subject  to  the  provisions  of
paragraph (c) of section 9.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred  by the
body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

13. (1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
Auditing

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all
other transactions of the body corporate.

10

International  Institute  of  Theravadha
 (Incorporation)  Act, No. 32 of 2024

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  a  qualified  auditor  and  be  certified  by  such
qualified  auditor.

(4)  For  the  purposes  of  this  section  “qualified  auditor”

means-

(a)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other  Institute  established  by  Law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or

(b)

a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of  which,  being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate  to  practice  as  an  Accountant,  issued
by the Council of such Institute.

14. (1) The Executive Board shall prepare a report of the
activities of the body corporate for each financial year and
submit  such  report  together  with  the  audited  statement  of
accounts certified by a qualified auditor, to the Secretary of
the  Ministry  of  the  Minister  assigned  the  subject  of
Buddhasasana,  Religious  and  Cultural  Affairs  before  the
expiration of six months of the year succeeding the year to
which such report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreign
and local moneys received by the body corporate during the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).

Annual  Report

International  Institute  of  Theravadha
 (Incorporation)  Act, No. 32 of 2024

11

15. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  body  corporate  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to  and  subscriptions  and
contributions  payable  to  the  Institute  on  that  day  shall  be
paid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable  to
Institute

16. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall be able and capable in
law to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant,  gift,  testamentary  disposition  or  otherwise,  and  all
such  property  shall  be  held  by  the  body  corporate  for  the
purpose  of  this  Act  and  subject  to  the  rules  of  the  body
corporate  made  under  section  10,  with  power  to  sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Body  corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

17.  The  moneys  and  property  of  the  body  corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion  of  the  objects  of  the  body  corporate  and  no
portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  transferred  directly  or
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwise
howsoever to the members of the body corporate.

Application  of
moneys  and
property

Seal  of  the  body
corporate

18. (1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members of the Executive Board who shall sign their names
to  the  instrument  in  token  of  their  presence  and  such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.

(2)  The  seal  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  in  the
custody of an office bearer of the Executive Board as may
be decided by such Executive Board.

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

12

International  Institute  of  Theravadha
 (Incorporation)  Act, No. 32 of 2024

19. (1) lf upon the dissolution of the body corporate, there
remains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed  among  the  members  of  the  body  corporate,
but, shall be given or transferred to any other institution
having  objects  similar  to  those  of  the  body  corporate,
and  which  is  by  the  rules  thereof,  prohibited  from
distributing any income or property among its members.

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  subsection  (1),  the  appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at  a  general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic

20. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the  rights  of  the  Republic  or  of  any  body  politic  or  other
body  corporate.

Interpretation

21. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:-

‘bank” means a licensed commercial bank within
the meaning of the Banking Act, No. 30 of
1988;  and

“written  law”  shall  have  the  same  meaning
assigned  to  such  expression  in  the
Constitution.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case  of
inconsistency

22. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

International  Institute  of  Theravadha
 (Incorporation)  Act, No. 32 of 2024

13

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

