THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

Part II of  July 26, 2024

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 30.07.2024)

KODHAGODA GUNARATHANA NAHIMI
FOUNDATION  (INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Yadamini Gunawardena M. P.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Kodhagoda  Gunarathana  Nahimi  Foundation
(Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  KODHAGODA GUNARATHANA NAHIMI
FOUNDATION

WHEREAS  a  Foundation  called  and  known  as  the
“Kodhagoda  Gunarathana  Nahimi  Foundation”  has
heretofore  been  formed  in  Sri  Lanka  for  the  purpose  of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all matters
connected with the said Foundation according to the rules
agreed by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and
matters for which it was established, and has applied to   be
incorporated,  and  it  will  be  expedient  to  grant  the  said
application:

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

5

10

15

1. This  Act  may  be    cited  as    the  Kodhagoda
Gunarathana  Nahimi  Foundation    (Incorporation)
Act, No.    of  2024.

Short  title

Incorporation
of  the
Kodhagoda
Gunarathana
Nahimi
Foundation

2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Kodhagoda Gunarathana Nahimi Foundation (hereinafter
referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession, under the name
and  style  of  the  “Kodhagoda  Gunarathana  Nahimi
Foundation”  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “body
corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued,  in all
Courts  with  full  power  and  authority  to  have  and  use  a
common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

20

25

Body
corporate
operates  as  a
not-for-profit
Organization

The  General
objects  of  the
body
corporate

2

Kodhagoda  Gunarathana  Nahimi  Foundation
(Incorporation)

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a voluntary
social service organization within the meaning, and for the
purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Service  Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions  of  the Act  shall  apply  to  and  in  relation  to  the
management of the affairs of the body corporate.

5

3.  The  body  corporate  shall  operates  exclusively  as  a
not-for-profit organization and it is solely for the benefit of
the society and its members.

10

4. (1) The general objects for which the body corporate

is constituted are hereby declared to be-

(a) to  develop  quality  relationship  between  members
and  beneficiaries  of  the  Kodhagoda  Gunarathana
Nahimi  Foundation;

15

(b) to  develop  human  resources  and  facilitate  career

development;

(c) to  create  a  religious  and  cultural  revival  of  the
members of the beneficiaries of the Foundation;

(d) to establish appropriate liaison between Kodhagoda
Gunarathana  Nahimi  Foundation  and  national  and
international organizations thereby promoting moral
and  physical  development  of  Kodhagoda
Gunarathana  Nahimi  Foundation;

(e) to  bring  the  religious,  moral,  educational  and
physical  development  to  the  various  ethnicities  of
Sri Lanka;

20

25

Kodhagoda  Gunarathana  Nahimi  Foundation
(Incorporation)

3

(f) to develop quality relationship between members

of the Foundation and it’s beneficiaries;

(g) to  facilitate  the  economic  and  professional
development of the low income community ;

5

(h) to work for the advancement of various local cultures;

and

(i) to fulfill the physical needs of the  local people by
building  reliable  relationship  internationally.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified in
subsection  (1)  the  Corporation  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation  shall  be  carried  out  without  any
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex,
political opinion, place of birth or any such grounds.

5. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out in
such manner so as not to create any conflict between the work
of  the  Corporation  and  any  work  being  carried  out
simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or any Provincial Council

6.  (1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  the  body
corporate  shall  be  carried  out  by  a  Board  of  Management
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Board”  consisting  of  such
number of office bearers as may be specified by the rules
made under Section 8.

(2) (a) The Board of Management of the Foundation that
holds office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Board of the
body corporate until the first Board is appointed or elected in
the manner provided for by rules made under Section 8.

10

15

20

25

Body
corporate  to
ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of
Ministry  or
Department
of  the  Central
Government
or  Province

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the  body
corporate

4

Kodhagoda  Gunarathana  Nahimi  Foundation
(Incorporation)

(b) The first board of the body corporate shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the  date of commencement of
this Act.

5

(3)  (a)  Every  office  bearer  of  the  Board  including  the
patrons  and  advisors,  shall  be  appointed  or  elected  for  a
period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or
advisor shall be eligible for  re-appointment or re-election
after lapse of the said period of three years;

10

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer,  the  Board  shalll  having  regard  to  the  rules  of  the
body corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy;

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term of
office of the member whom he succeeds.

15

20

25

7. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other written
law, the body corporate shall have the power to do, perform
and  execute  all  such  acts  and  matters  as  necessary  or
desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including the
power -

Powers  of  the
body
corporate

(a) to  purchase,  acquire,  rent,  construct,  remove  and
otherwise  obtain  lands  or  buildings  which  may  be
required for the purpose of the body corporate and
to deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the body corporate;

(b) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,

in cash or kind with or without security:

Kodhagoda  Gunarathana  Nahimi  Foundation
(Incorporation)

5

provided that, the Board shall obtain the prior
written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assinged
the subjects of Finance, in respect of all foreign grants,
gifts or donations made to the body corporate;

(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory  notes  and  other  negotiable  instruments
and  to  open,  operate  and  close  accounts  in  any
banks;

(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the corporate in such manner as the Board
may determine;

(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and administer
any lawful trust or any real or personal property with
a  view  to  promoting  the  objects  of  the  body
corporate;

(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the body corporation  and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the body corporate; and

(g) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects
of the body corporate.

8.  (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:-

Rules  of  the
body
corporate

5

10

15

20

25

30

6

Kodhagoda  Gunarathana  Nahimi  Foundation
(Incorporation)

(a) the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members and
fees payable by members;

(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or vacation
of or removal from office of office bearers and the
powers, duties and functions of the office bearers;

(c) the  terms  and  conditions  of  appointment,  powers,
functions and duties of the various officers, agents
and servants of the body corporate;

(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning and
holding  of  meetings  of  the  Board,  or  any  sub-
committee  thereof,  notices  and  agenda  of  such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;

5

10

15

(e) the  qualifications  and  disqualifications  to  be  a
members of the Board and the body corporate;

(f) the administration and management of the property

of the body corporate; and

20

(g) the management of the affairs of the body corporate
and  the  accomplishment  of  its’  objects  and
dissolution of the body corporate.

(2)  The  rules  made  by  the  body  corporate  may  be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting
and in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

25

(3) The members of the body corporate shall at all time

be subject to rules of the body corporate.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be published

in the Government Gazette.

Kodhagoda  Gunarathana  Nahimi  Foundation
(Incorporation)

7

9. The  Board  shall  maintain  a  register  of  members  in
which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members be inscribed.

Register  of
members

Fund  of  the
body
corporate

10. (1) The Body corporate shall have its own Fund.

5

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,
subscription, contribution, fees, or grants for an account of
the body corporate shall be deposited in one or more Banks
approved by the Board to the credit of the body corporate.

10

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
as  are  required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its power, duties and functions under the Act.

11. (1)  The  financial  year  of  the  Body  Corporate  shall  be

the calendar year.

Accounts
and  the
Auditing

15

(2)  The Body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept  of  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities and
all other transactions of the  Body corporate.

(3)  The accounts of the Body corporation shall be audited
by Auditor General or by a qualified auditor appointed by
Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of the Constitution.

20

(4)  For  the  purpose  of  this  section  “qualified  auditor”

means -

25

(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute of
Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka,  or  any  other
institute established by law, possesses a certified to
practice as  Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute;  or

8

Kodhagoda  Gunarathana  Nahimi  Foundation
(Incorporation)

(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of    which  being  a    member  of    the    Institute  of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such  Institute.

Annual
Report

12. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the  activities
of the Body corporate for each financial year and submits
such report together with the audited statement of accounts
to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the
subject of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary
Social Services Organizations appointed under the Voluntary
Social Service Organization (Registration and Supervision)
Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of  the
year succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and local
moneys received by the Body corporate during the financial
year  shall  be  attached  to  the  report  referred  to  in
subsection (1).

5

10

15

20

25

13. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Body corporate hereby constituted, and
all  debts  due  to,  and  subscriptions    and  contributions
payable  to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the
Body corporate for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Foundation

30

14.  Subject  to  the  provision  of  this  Act,  the  Body
corporate shall be able and capable in law, to take and hold
any  property  movable  or  immovable  which  may  become
vested in it by virtue of any purchase grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by  the  Body  corporate  for  the  purposes  of  this  Act,  and
subject  to  the  rules  of  the  Body  corporate  made  under
section 8, with power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or
otherwise dispose of the same.

Body
corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

Kodhagoda  Gunarathana  Nahimi  Foundation
(Incorporation)

9

15.  The  moneys  and  property  of  the  Body  corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion  of  the  objects  of  the  Body  corporate  and  no
portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  transferred  directly  or
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit to the members
of the Body corporate

Application
of  money
and  property

16. The Seal of the Body corporation shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members  of  the  Body    who  shall  sign  their  names  to  the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Body
corporate

(2) The Seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.

17. (1)  If  upon the  dissolution of  the  body corporate
there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the Body corporate but
shall be given or transferred to any other Foundation having
objects similar to  those of the Body corporate, and which is
by the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income
or property among its members.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

5

10

15

20

(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of the body
corporate  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at  a  general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

25

18. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or   affect
the rights of the Republic or anybody politic or corporate.

Saving  of  the
Rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

10

Kodhagoda  Gunarathana  Nahimi  Foundation
(Incorporation)

19.  In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistancy

Kodhagoda  Gunarathana  Nahimi  Foundation
(Incorporation)

11

Department  of  Government  Printing

