PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

OFFICE FOR NATIONAL UNITY AND RECONCILIATION
ACT, No. 1 OF 2024

[Certified on 23rd of January, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 26, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 30.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

1

[Certified on 23rd of January, 2024]

L.D.-O. 16/2023

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE FOR NATIONAL
UNITY AND RECONCILIATION, IN ORDER TO ENSURE AND PROMOTE
NATIONAL UNITY AND RECONCILIATION IN SRI LANKA; TO SET OUT THE
POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS THEREOF AND TO PROVIDE FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS  having  regard  to  the  need  and  importance  of
national  unity  and  reconciliation  in  the  socio-economic
development process in Sri Lanka and the commitment and
consensus for the achievement of the same;

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  it  has  become  a  matter  of  national
importance  to  establish  an  office  for  national  unity  and
reconciliation  in  order  to  assure  to  every  citizen  equal
opportunities in the economic, social, cultural and political
spheres  whilst  safeguarding  the  identity  and  to  build  an
inclusive  society  in  which  diversity  will  be  respected  and
all communities will coexist in harmony and unity;

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.  This Act may be cited as the Office for National Unity

Short  title

and Reconciliation Act, No. 1 of 2024.

2.  The objects of the Act shall be -

Objects  of  the
Act

(a)

to promote and foster national unity, reconciliation
and peaceful coexistence among all persons in Sri
Lanka;

(b)

to formulate and recommend to the Government, a
national policy on reconciliation and coexistence;

2

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

to  facilitate  the  implementation  of  policies  and
programmes  in  relation  to  national  unity  and
to  build
reconciliation 
understanding,  harmony  and  unity  among  all
communities;

that  would  help 

to recommend to the Government, measures to be
taken  to  resolve  matters  causing  tensions  and
conflicts  within  and  among  the  different
communities;

to provide assistance to the stakeholders working
on  reconciliation  and  coexistence  in  order  to
achieve  coherence  in  peace  and  national  unity
initiatives;  and

to  assist  and  facilitate  the  implementation  of  any
recommendation  made  by  any  reconciliation
endeavour  established  under  any  written  law,  or
any policy of the Government, for the purpose of
achieving  national  unity  and  reconciliation.

PART  I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE FOR NATIONAL UNITY AND

RECONCILIATION

Establishment  of
the  Office  for
National  Unity
and
Reconciliation

3.  (1) There shall be established an office which shall be
called  and  known  as  the  “Office  for  National  Unity  and
Reconciliation”  (hereinafter  referred 
the
“Reconciliation  Office”).

to  as 

(2) The Reconciliation Office shall be a body corporate
having  perpetual  succession  and  a  common  seal  and  may
sue and be sued in its corporate name.

Constitution  of
the
Reconciliation
Office

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

3

(3) The headquarters of the Reconciliation Office shall
be situated in Colombo and the Reconciliation Office may,
from time to time, establish such number of regional offices
as may be necessary, to achieve its mandate.

4.  (1) The Reconciliation Office shall consist of -

(a) one ex-officio member appointed by the President,
as  nominated  by  the  Minister,  who  shall  be  an
officer not below the rank of an Additional Secretary
of the Ministry of the Minister; and

(b)

ten other members appointed by the President on
the  recommendation  of  the  Minister  made  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  subsection  (2)
(hereinafter referred to as the “appointed members”).

(2) In making recommendations for the appointment of
members referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1), the
Minister shall have due regard to -

(a)

(b)

ensure that the composition of the Reconciliation
Office  reflects  the  pluralistic  nature  of  the  Sri
Lankan  society;

ensure  that  the  persons  recommended  to  be
appointed as members of the Reconciliation Office
shall be persons having eminence and experience
in one or more of the fields of human rights law,
international humanitarian law, reconciliation and
social  harmony,  national  unity,  management,
project  planning  and  regional  development;  and

(c)

ensure  that  the  persons  recommended  to  be
appointed as members of the Reconciliation Office
are not subject to any disqualification specified in
section 5.

Disqualification
to  be  a  member
of  the
Reconciliation
Office

4

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

(3)  The  President  may,  on  the  recommendation  of  the
Minister,  appoint  one  member  as  the  Chairperson  of  the
Reconciliation Office.

5.  A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as a member of the Reconciliation Office, if
such person –

(a)

is  or  become  a  Member  of  Parliament,  of  any
Provincial Council or of any Local Authority;

(b)

is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c) has been or is adjudged an insolvent by a court of

competent  jurisdiction;

(d) has been or is found to have a conflict of interest,
which in the opinion of the President, formed on
the  recommendation  of  the  Minister,  conflicts
with his duties as a member of the Reconciliation
Office;

(e)

is or becomes unfit to continue in office by reason
of illness or other infirmity of mind or body;

(f) has been or is declared to be of unsound mind by a

court of competent jurisdiction;

(g) has  served  or  is  serving  or  a  sentence  of
imprisonment imposed by any court in Sri Lanka
or any other country; or

(h)

absents  himself  from  three  consecutive  meetings
without  previously  obtaining  leave  from  the
Reconciliation Office.

Term  of  office
of  the  appointed
members

Removal  and
resignation  of
appointed
members

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

5

6.  (1)  Every  appointed  member  of  the  Reconciliation
Office shall, unless such member vacates office earlier by
death, resignation or removal, hold office for a term of three
years  from  the  date  of  the  appointment  and  unless  such
member has been removed, shall be eligible for reappointment
for not more than one further term, whether consecutive or
otherwise.

(2) For the purpose of this section, the period in which a
member  is  appointed  as  an  acting  member  shall  not  be
considered as a ‘term’ of office within the meaning of this
section.

7.  (1)  The  office  of  an  appointed  member  of  the

Reconciliation Office shall become vacant -

(a) upon the death of such member;

(b) upon such member resigning such office by writing

addressed to the President;

(c) upon such member being removed from office on

any ground specified in section 5; or

(d) on the expiration of such member’s term of office.

(2)    A  member  of  the  Reconciliation  Office  may  be
removed from office by the President, if such person becomes
disqualified  under  section  5  to  be  a  member  of  the
Reconciliation Office.

(3)  The  Chairperson  may  resign  from  the  office  of

Chairperson by letter addressed to the President.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2),
the term of office of the Chairperson shall be the period of
membership of the Reconciliation Office.

6

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

(5)  (a)  If  the  Chairperson  of  the  Reconciliation  Office
becomes  temporarily  unable  to  perform  the  duties  of  his
office, by reason of illness or other infirmity or due to absence
from Sri Lanka or any other reason, the President may, subject
to the provisions of section 4, appoint any other member of
the Reconciliation Office to act as the Chairperson.

(b)  If  a  member  of  the  Reconciliation  Office  becomes
temporarily  unable  to  perform  the  duties  of  his  office,  by
reason of illness or other infirmity or due to absence from
Sri Lanka or any other reason, the President may, subject to
the  provisions  of  section  4,  appoint  any  other  qualified
person to temporarily act in place of such member during
such period.

(6)  No  act  or  proceeding  of  the  Reconciliation  Office
shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence
of  any  vacancy  among  its  members,  or  defect  in  the
appointment of any member thereof.

Quorum  and  the
meetings  of  the
Reconciliation
Office

8. (1) The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the
Reconciliation Office. In the absence of the Chairperson of
any  meeting  of  the  Reconciliation  Office,  the  members
present at such meeting shall elect one of the members of the
Reconciliation Office to preside at such meeting.

(2) The Chairperson or the member presiding at any such
meeting  of  the  Reconciliation  Office  shall,  in  addition  to
his own vote, have a casting vote.

(3)  The quorum for meetings of the Reconciliation Office

shall be five members.

(4)  Subject  to  the  other  provisions  of  this  Act,  the
Reconciliation  Office  may  make  rules,  to  regulate  the
procedure in regard to the conduct of its meetings, and the
transaction of business at such meetings.

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

7

PART II

MANDATE, POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE
RECONCILIATION OFFICE

9. The Reconciliation Office shall have the mandate to –

(a) make  recommendations  to  the  Government  and
relevant  authorities  towards  achieving  national
unity,  reconciliation  and  durable  peace  in  Sri
Lanka;

(b)

(c)

(d)

formulate a national policy and national action plan
on  reconciliation  and  coexistence;

facilitate  and  implement  programmes  to  promote
national unity and reconciliation in Sri Lanka and
to monitor the implementation thereof; and

recommend  to  the  Government,  measures  to  be
taken  to  resolve  matters  causing  tensions  and
conflicts  within  and  among  the  different
communities,  having  adverse  effects  on  national
unity.

10.  The  Reconciliation  Office  shall  have  the  following

powers, duties and functions: -

(a)

to make recommendations to the Government and
relevant authorities, on matters relevant to building
national unity and reconciliation in Sri Lanka and
other  matters  specified  in  the  mandate  of  the
Reconciliation  Office;

(b)

to  formulate  a  national  policy  on  reconciliation
and  coexistence  and  assist  the  implementation  of
the same;

Mandate  of  the
Reconciliation
Office

Powers,  duties
and  functions  of
the
Reconciliation
Office

8

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

(j)

to formulate and implement the national action plan
on  reconciliation  and  coexistence  comprising  of
the programmes specified in the Schedule to this
Act;

to  identify  the  persons  or  groups  of  persons
aggrieved within the social layers of the Sri Lankan
society due to ethnic, religious, linguistic, social,
political and economic factors;

to develop affirmative action  programmes  for the
persons or groups of persons referred to in paragraph
(d) within the national action plan on reconciliation
and  coexistence;

to pursue the efforts towards reconciliation and the
strengthening of national unity, and to address post-
conflict concerns such as the return and resettlement
the
internally  displaced  people,  and 
of 
rehabilitation  and  reintegration  of  concerned
persons;

to  launch  public  awareness  and  education
campaigns on the national policy on reconciliation
and coexistence and the national action plan;

to  mainstream  the  values  defined  in  the  national
policy  on  reconciliation  and  coexistence  within
Government  institutions  and  existing  national
initiatives through annual work plans;

to  identify  the  constraints  to  national  integration
and to take suitable action based on discussion and
consensus of the relevant stakeholders;

to  collaborate  with  the  Ministries,  government
departments  and  other  institutions  dealing  with
matters  relating  to  reconciliation  and  peace
building;

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

9

(k)

(l)

to  review  various  strategies  that  are  being
implemented  and  due  to  be  implemented  with
regard to the national integration and reconciliation
and  to  assist  in  the  settlement  of  issues  in
implementing such strategies;

to make recommendations to the Government and
other relevant authorities for the consultation with
relevant  stakeholders  on  required  policies  and
actions  for  national  unity,  reconciliation,
coexistence and building a lasting peace;

(m)

to assist the relevant authorities -

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

to  prepare  and  implement  programmes  on
the  promotion  of  national  integration,
reconciliation  and  coexistence  and  national
harmony and to integrate such programmes
into development plans at the district level;

to implement the recommendations made by
any  reconciliation  endeavour  established
under any written law, or any policy of the
Government,  for  the  purpose  of  achieving
national  unity  and  reconciliation;

to  resolve  issues  that  may  emerge  in  the
process of peace building and reconciliation
by making proposals on appropriate solutions
to such issues; and

to  seek  funds  for  implementation  of
programmes  and  projects  on  national  unity
and  reconciliation,  conducted  under  this
Act;

10

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

(n)

(o)

(p)

(q)

(r)

(s)

(t)

to liaise and coordinate with other local and foreign
institutions,  development  partners  and  civil
society with a view to promoting the objects of the
Act;

to  assist,  guide  and  facilitate  peace  and
reconciliation  programmes  conducted  by  local
organisations  including  community  based
organisations;

to make rules to ensure the effective functioning of
the  Reconciliation  Office 
its
administration;

including 

to  make  rules  and  issue  guidelines  from  time  to
time  which  shall  include  gender  and  child
responsive policies, to be followed by the staff of
the Reconciliation Office relating to the exercise,
performance and discharge of its powers, duties and
functions;

to  appoint,  employ  and  dismiss  officers  and
employees  of  the  Reconciliation  Office  and  to
exercise disciplinary control over such officers and
employees;

to  request  secondment  of  public  officers  to  the
Reconciliation  Office;  and

to appoint committees and establish in addition to
any unit or division specifically mentioned in this
Act,  divisions  and  units  as  are  required  for  the
effective  administration  and  functioning  of  the
Reconciliation Office and to delegate such powers
and functions as are necessary to such committees,
divisions  and  units.

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

11

PART III

SECRETARIAT

11. (1) The Reconciliation Office shall have a Secretariat
which  shall  be  charged  with  the  responsibility  of
administering the affairs of the Reconciliation Office.

Secretariat

(2) The Reconciliation Office shall appoint a Director-
General,  who  shall  be  a  person  having  qualifications  and
experience in the field of national unity and reconciliation
and the Director-General shall be the Chief Executive Officer
of the Reconciliation Office.

(3) There may be appointed, by the Reconciliation Office,
such other officers and servants as may be necessary to assist
the Reconciliation Office in the exercise, performance and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions.

12.  (1) At the request of the Reconciliation Office, any
officer  in  the  public  service  may  with  the  consent  of  that
officer  and  the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister
assigned the subject of Public Administration, be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Reconciliation Office for such
period as may be determined by the Reconciliation Office
or with like consent, be permanently appointed to such staff.

Appointment  of
public  officers
to  the  staff  of
the
Reconciliation
Office

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Reconciliation  Office,  the
provisions  of  subsection  (2)  of  section  14  of  the  National
Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis
mutandis apply to and in relation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Reconciliation  Office,  the
provisions  of  subsection  (3)  of  section  14  of  the  National
Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis
mutandis apply to and in relation to such officer.

12

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

PART IV

FINANCE  AND  REPORTING

Finances

13. The State shall provide the Reconciliation Office with
adequate  funds  to  enable  the  Reconciliation  Office  to
discharge the functions assigned to it by this Act. Such funds
shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.

Salaries  of
members  of  the
Reconciliation
Office

14.  The salaries of the members of the Reconciliation
Office shall be determined by Parliament and be charged on
the Consolidated Fund, and shall not be diminished during
their terms of office.

Reconciliation
Office  to  raise
funds

15. The Reconciliation Office may raise funds –

(a) by  obtaining  grants,  gifts  or  endowments  from

within Sri Lanka; and

(b)

to achieve its mandate by obtaining grants, gifts or
endowments from outside Sri Lanka:

Provided  that,  the  funds  under  paragraph  (b)  shall  be
channeled through the Department of External Resources.

Financial  year

16.  (1) The financial year of the Reconciliation Office

shall be the calendar year.

(2) The Reconciliation Office shall cause proper accounts
to be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities.

(3)  The  accounts  of  the  Reconciliation  Office  shall  be
audited by the Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of the
Constitution.

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

13

17. The Reconciliation Office shall submit annual reports
including its audited accounts, to Parliament, and shall also
cause such reports to be made public within a period of one
month of such reports being submitted to Parliament.

Reporting

PART V

GENERAL

18.  (1) Any person who –

Offences

(a) wrongfully  resists  or  obstructs  any  person
authorised  under  this  Act  in  the  exercise  of  the
powers conferred on such person;

(b) wrongfully hinders or obstructs the Reconciliation
Office in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions; or

(c) willfully  provides  false  information  to  the

Reconciliation Office,

commits  the  offence  of  contempt  against  the  authority  of
the Reconciliation Office.

(2)  Where  the  Reconciliation  Office  has  reasonable
grounds to believe that a person has committed the offence
of  contempt  against  the  authority  of  the  Reconciliation
Office, the Reconciliation Office shall report such matter to
the Court of Appeal. Every offence of contempt committed
against the authority of the Reconciliation Office shall be
punishable by the Court of Appeal as if it was an offence of
contempt committed against the Court of Appeal.

19.  (1)  (a)  No  order,  decision,  act  or  omission  of  the
Reconciliation  Office  or  any  member,  officer  or  servant
thereof shall be questioned in any proceedings or any court
of law, save and except in proceedings under Article 126 or
140 of the Constitution.

Protection
from  action

14

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

(b) The writ jurisdiction conferred on the Court of Appeal
by Article 140 of the Constitution in relation to any order,
decision, act or omission of the Reconciliation Office or any
member, officer or servant thereof, shall be exercised by the
Supreme Court and not by the Court of Appeal.

(2)  Other  than  in  the  circumstances  provided  for  in

subsection (1) of this section –

(a) no proceedings civil or criminal, shall be instituted
against any member of the Reconciliation Office or
any  officer  or  servant  appointed  to  assist  the
Reconciliation  Office,  other  than  for  contempt
against the authority of the Reconciliation Office,
for any act which in good faith is done or omitted
to be done, by him, as such member or officer or
servant;

(b) no proceedings civil or criminal, shall be instituted
against any member of the Reconciliation Office in
respect  of  any  report  made  in  good  faith  by  the
Reconciliation Office under this Act or against any
other person in respect of the publication by such
person of a true account of such report; and

(c) no  proceedings  civil,  criminal  or  administrative,
shall be instituted against any person consequent,
to such person in good faith providing evidence or
documentation to the Reconciliation Office.

Rules

20.  (1)  The  Reconciliation  Office  may  make  rules  for
matters for which rules are required to be made under this
Act.

(2) Every rule made under this Act shall be placed before
Parliament and published in the Gazette within a reasonable
period not exceeding three months.

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

15

21.  The  members  of  the  Reconciliation  Office  (for  the
limited  purpose  of  their  functions  under  this  Act)  and  the
officers and servants shall be deemed to be public servants
for the purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19), the Anti-
Corruption Act, No.9 of 2023 and the Evidence Ordinance
(Chapter 14).

Members        &  c.
deemed  to  be
public  servants

22.  The  Reconciliation  Office  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a
scheduled  institution  within  the  meaning  of  the  Anti-
Corruption Act, No.9 of 2023, and the provisions of that Act
shall be construed accordingly.

Reconciliation
Office  to  be  a
scheduled
institution

23.  (1)  The  Reconciliation  Office  may  delegate  to  the
Director-General, or any other member or officer thereof,
any of its powers and functions.

Delegation  of
Powers

(2) The Director-General, the member or officer to whom
any of the powers or functions of the Reconciliation Office
has been delegated shall exercise and perform such powers
and functions subject to the general or specific directions of
the Reconciliation Office.

24. Unless the context otherwise requires, in this Act -

Interpretation

“Minister”  means  the  Minister  assigned  the
Reconciliation Office under Article 44 or 45 of the
Constitution;  and

“community based organisations” means  non-profit or
non-governmental  organizations  that  operates  at
the grassroot level within a specific community or
locality.

25. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

16

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

SCHEDULE

[section  10(c)]

Programmes  to  be  comprised  in  the  national  action  plan  on
reconciliation  and  coexistence

1. Programmes  to  ensure  reconciliation  and  coexistence  that  builds
up  awareness,  peace  and  unity  among  all  communities  and
follow  up.

2. Programmes  to  promote  and  catalyze  a  multi-stakeholder  effort
to  create  a  society  that  respects  rule  of  law,  fundamental  rights,
freedom,  social  obligations,  mutual  respect,  non-discrimination,
equity  and  diversity.

3. Programmes  to  establish  a  coherent  network  mechanism
designed  and  established  from  regional  level  to  the  national
level 
towards
reconciliation  and  provide  early  warning  and  response  to
emerging  conflicts.

to  promote  dialogue,  build  consensus 

4. Programmes  to  strengthen  the  governance,  policies  and
curricula  to  promote  reconciliation  and  social  cohesion  in  the
education  system  including  schools,  both  public  and  private
universities,  tertiary  and  vocational  education  institutions.

5. Programmes  to  make  psychosocial  care  and  support  system,
including  coordination,  assessment,  monitoring  and  evaluation
strengthened  to  foster  reconciliation  among  deprived
communities.

6. Programmes  to  formulate  a  national  action  plan  for  preventing
violent  extremism,  in  consultation  with  the  relevant  Ministries
and  government  departments  and  institutions.

7. Programmes  to  make  recommendations  to  the  Government  on
measures  to  be  taken  to  resolve  issues  causing  to  stress  and
conflicts  existed  among  different  communities  and  implement
such  measures  and  follow  up.

8. Programmes  to  formulate  projects  and  programmes  focused
on  social  integration,  education,  conflict  transformation,
psychosocial  supportive  projects,  arts  and  culture,  awareness
creation  and  socialization,  economic  engagement  programmes
under  overall  district  development  and  local  economic
development  plans,  livelihood  development  plans  with  a  special
focus  to  women  and  youth  integration.

Office for National Unity and Reconciliation
Act, No. 1 of 2024

17

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

