PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

DASSANA  BAUDDHA  SANVIDHANAYA
(INCORPORATION) ACT, NO. 14 OF 2024

[Certified on 19th of  February, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 15, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

1

[Certified on 19th of February, 2024]

L.D.—O. (Inc. 8/2021)

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DASSANA BAUDDHA SANVIDHANAYA

WHEREAS an Organization called and known as the “Dassana
Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya”  has  heretofore  been  established  in
Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects
and  transacting  all  matters  connected  with  the  said
Organization according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Organization  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to
grant the said application:

BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Dassana  Bauddha

Short  title

Sanvidhanaya  (Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of  2024.

Incorporation
of  the
Dassana
Bauddha
Sanvidhanaya

2.

(1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now  are members of  the
Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya (hereinafter referred to as the
“Organization”) and shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the  body  corporate  hereby  constituted  shall  have  perpetual
succession under the name and style of  the “Dassana Bauddha
Sanvidhanaya” (hereinafter referred to as the “ body corporate”),
and  by  that  name  may  sue  and  be  sued  with  full  power  and
authority to have, and  use a common seal and to alter the same
at its pleasure.

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Service Organization within the meaning and for the
purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Services  Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions  of  that  Act  shall  apply  to  and  in  relation  to  the
management of the affairs of the body corporate.

2

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

General
objects  of  the
body
corporate

  3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  body  corporate  is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

(a) to  organize  and  conduct  Sathara  Sathipattana
meditation programmes for Buddhist adherents;

(b) to spread in the society, the activity of purification of
the  mind  which  is  the  message  of  the  Theravada
Buddhism  by  way  of  organizing  Dana,  Seela  and
meditiation programmes;

(c) to  make  arrangements  to  provide  alms  and  other
requisite  to  the  resident  Bhikkus  Dasa  Sil  Mathas,
Upasakas and Upasikas of the Bebalagama Nagalen
Rajamaha Vihara; and

(d) to oraganize religious and cultural programmes and
activities  with  a  view  to  protecting  Theravada
Buddhism.

4.   The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out
in  accordance with written law and in such manner so as not
to create any conflict between the work of the body corporate
and  any  work  being  carried  out  simultaneously  by  any
Ministry or  Department of the Government or any Provincial
Council or any Local Authority.

5.

(1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this Act  and  the
rules  made  under  section  7,  the  management  and
administration of the affairs of the body corporate shall be
carried out by an Executive Board  (hereinafter referred to as
the “Board”) consisting of such number of office bearers as
may be specified by the rules made under section 7.

(2)  (a) The members of the Board of the Organization
holding office on the day  immediately preceding the date
of commencement of this Act shall, subject to the rules made

Body  corporate
to  ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of  Ministry
or  Department  of
the  Government
or  any  Provincial
Council  or  any
Local  Authority

Management  of
affairs  of  the
body  corporate

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

3

under paragraph (b),  function as an  Interim Board of the
body corporate until the first Board is appointed or elected
in the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) Subject to the provisions of section 7, the Interim
Board of the body corporae shall have the power to make
rules  for  the  interim  administration  of  the  body  corporate
not inconsistant with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law.

(c) Any decision of the Interim Board shall be taken

by the majority of its members present at any meeting.

(d) The  First    Board  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be
appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

(3)

(a) Every office bearer of the  Board including the
patrons  and  advisers,  shall  be  appointed  or  elected  for  a
period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or
advisor   shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election
after lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the   Board shall having regard to the rules of the
body corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,
perform and execute the following acts for the attainment of
the objects of the body corporate –

Powers  of  the
body  corporate

4

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

(a) to  purchase,  rent,  construct,  renovate  or  otherwise
obtain lands or buildings which may be required for
the purpose of the body corporate and to deal with or
dispose  of  the  same  as  may  be  determined  by  the
Board  with a view to promoting the objeccts of the
body  corporate;

(b) to enter into and perform or carry out, whether directly
or  through  any  officer  or  agent  authorized  in  that
behalf  by  the  body  corporate,  all  such  contracts  or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment of
the objects or the exercise of the powers of the body
corporate;

(c) to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind:

Provided  that,  the    Board  shall  obtain  the  prior
written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources  in  respect  of  all  foreign  grants,  gifts  or
donations made to the body corporate;

(d) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory  notes  and  other  negotiable  instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts in
any  bank;

(e) to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for the purposes of the body corporate in such manner
as the  Board may determine;

(f) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and administer
any lawful trust having objects similar to the body
corporate or any real or personal property with a view
to promoting the objects of the body corporate;

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

5

(g) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of  officers  and  servants  of  the  body  corporate  and
exercise  disciplinary  control  over  them  and  to  pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the body corporate;

(h) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a  view  to  promoting  the  objectives  of  the  body
corporate;

(i) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions having similar objects to that of the body
corporate;  and

(j) to train officers and servants in Sri Lanka or abroad

for the purpose of the body corporate.

7.

(1)  It  shall  be  lawful  for  the  body  corporate,  from
time to time, at any general meeting of the body corporate
and by a majority  of not less than two-thirds of the members
present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions  of  this  Act  or  any  other  written  law,  for  the
following matters:—

Rules  of  the
body  corporate

(a)

(b)

the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by the members;

the  election  of  office  bearers  of  the  Board  or
vacation of or  removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;

(c)

the  terms  and  conditions  of  appoinment,  powers,
functions  and  duties  of  the  various  officers  and
servants of the body corporate;

6

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

the  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  summoning
and holding of meetings of the body corporate and
of the Board or notices and agenda of such meetings,
the quorum and the conduct of business thereat;

the  qualifications  and  disqualifications  to  be  a
member of the Board and the body corporate;

the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate;

the procedure governing the manner of liaising and
co-ordinating  with  other  local  and  foreign
institutions  having  objects  similar  to  that  of  the
body corporate; and

(h) generally the management of the affairs of the body
corporate  and  the  accomplishment  of  its'  objects
and dissolution of the body corporate.

(2)  Any  rule  made  by  the  body  corporate  may  be
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like  meeting
and in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of
this  section.

(3) The rule made under subsection (1), shall be published
in  the  Gazette  within  three  months  upon  making  of  such
rules  and  shall  come  into  effect  on  the  date  of  such
publication.

(4) The members of the body corporate shall at all times

be subject to the rules of the body corporate.

Register  of
members

8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members shall be inscirbed.

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

7

9.

(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

Fund  of  the
body  corporate

(2)  All  moneys  received  by  way  of  gifts,  bequests,
donations,  subscriptions,  contributions,  fees  or  grants  for
and on account of the body corporate shall, subject to the
provisions  of  section  6(c),    be  deposited  in  one  or  more
banks  approved  by  the  Board  to  the  credit  of  the  body
corporate.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums of
money as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by
the  body  corporate  in  the  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.

(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
Auditing

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  the  Auditor-General  or  a  qualified  auditor
appointed by the Auditor-General in terms of provisions of
Article 154 of the Constitution and be certified by the Auditor-
General or such qualified auditor.

(4)  For  the  purposes  of  this  section  “qualified  auditor”

means–

(a)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of  Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  of  any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or

Annual  Report

8

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

(b)

a firm  of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as  an  Accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
Institute.

11.

(1) The  Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of  the  body  corporate  for  each  financial  year  and  submit
such report together with the audited statement of accounts
and a list of all assets and liabilities of the body corporate
certified by the Auditor-General or qualified auditor referred
to in section 10, to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Buddha Sasana under Article 44 or
45  of  the  Constitution,  and  to  the  Registrar  of  Voluntary
Social Service Organizations appointed under the Voluntary
Social Service Organizations (Registration and Supervision)
Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of
the year succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreign
and local moneys received by the body corporate, details of
all  contracts  and  agreements  entered  into  by  the  body
corporate  and  the  rules  of  the  body  corporate  made  under
section 7  during the financial year shall be attached to the
report referred to in subsection (1).

Debts  due  by
and  payable  to
the  organization

12. All debts and liabilities of the Organization existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  body  corporate  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to  and  subscriptions  and
contributions payable to the Organization on that day shall
be paid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

9

13. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall be able and capable in
law to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the body corporate for the purpose
of  this  Act  and  subject  to  the  rules  of  the  body  corporate
made under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Body  corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

14. The  money  and  property  of  the  body  corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion  of  the  objects  of  the  body  corporate  and  no
portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  transferred  directly  or
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwise
howsoever to the members of the body corporate.

Application  of
moneys  and
property

15.

(1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members  of  the  Board  who  shall  sign  their  names  to  the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the  body
corporate

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by the
Board.

.16.

(1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate
there  remains  after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be  distributed  among  the  members  of  the  body  corporate,
but  shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  any  other  appropriate
institution  having  objects  similar  to  those  of  the  body
corporate, and which is  by the rules thereof prohibited from
distributing any income or property among its members.

(2) Where the requirements of subsection (1) cannot be
complied with the property remaining shall be transferred to

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

10

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

the Public Trustee in terms of the provisions of the Public
Trustee Ordinance (Chapter 88) or to the consolidated fund,
as the case may be.

(3)  The  manner  of  transferring  the  remaining  property
under  subsection  (1)  or  (2)  shall  be  determined  by  the
members  of  the  body  corporate  with  the  approval  of  the
Registrar  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Service  Organizations
appointed under the Voluntary Social Service Organizations
(Registration  and  Supervision)  Act,  No.  31  of  1980,
immediately before the dissolution at a general meeting by
the majority of votes of the members present.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic

17. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case  of
inconsistency

18.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 14 of 2024

11

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

