PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————

DR.  S.  S.  GUNAWARDANA  INDIGENOUS
AYURVEDA  DEVELOPMENT  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Dr. S. S. Gunawardana Indigenous Ayurveda
Development Foundation

————————

Presented by Hon. Rohana Bandara, M.P. for
Anuradhapura District on 24th of March, 2022

(Published in the Gazette on December 13, 2021)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

[Bill No. 111]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

 Dr. S. S. Gunawardana Indigenous Ayurveda
Development Foundation (Incorporation)

1

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DR. S. S. GUNAWARDANA
INDIGENOUS AYURVEDA DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Dr. S. S.
Gunawardana  Indigenous  Ayurveda  Development
Foundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the
purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and transacting
all matters connected with the said Foundation according to
the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Foundation  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects and
matters for which it was established, and has applied to be
incorporated  and  it  will  be  expedient  to  grant  the  said
application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  as follows:—

5

10

15

1. This Act may be cited as the Dr. S. S. Gunawardana
Indigenous  Ayurveda  Development  Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2022.

Short title

20

25

2.

(1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Dr. S. S. Gunawardana Indigenous Ayurveda Development
Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or
shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession,  under  the  name  and  style  of  the  “Dr.  S.  S.
Gunawardana  Indigenous  Ayurveda  Development
Foundation”  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Corporation”)
and by  that name may sue and be sued, in all courts with full
power and authority to have and use a common seal and to
alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporation of
the Dr. S. S.
Gunawardana
Indigenous
Ayurveda
Development
Foundation

2

Dr. S. S. Gunawardana Indigenous Ayurveda
Development Foundation (Incorporation)

(2)  The  Corporation  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  voluntary
social service organization within the meaning, and for the
purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Service  Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions  of  that  Act  shall  apply  to  and  in  relation  to  the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.

3.

(1) The general objects for which the Corporation is

constituted are hereby declared to be —

General
objects of the
Corporation

(a)

(b)

to  take  action  in  order  to  conduct  research  in  the
field of indigenous Ayurvedic treatment and taking
steps to continue in the same field;

to widen the indigenous medical treatment facilities
and to offer safety medical treatment through it in
the Island and other parts of the world;

5

10

15

(c)

to take necessary action to preserve the indigenous
medical treatment as well as the traditional medical
practices of Sri Lanka;

(d)

to engage in developing the education of indigenous
medical practices;

20

(e)

to create new medicinal herbal gardening to provide
poisonous  free  herbs  for  the  development  of
indigenous  Ayurveda  medical  practices  and
encourage  the  herbs  plantation  while  providing
assistance to those engage in the same cultivation;

25

(f)

to  increase  the  knowledge  of  the  indigenous
Ayurveda practices and its fundamental among the
local and foreigners;

30

(g)

to establish a fully-fledged hospital in the district of
Anuradhapura in order that anyone could obtain a
formal and effective indigenous medical treatment;
and

 Dr. S. S. Gunawardana Indigenous Ayurveda
Development Foundation (Incorporation)

3

(h)

to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to the attainment of
the above objects.

(2)  In  the  implementation  of  the  objects  specified  in
subsection  (1)  the  Corporation  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation shall be carried out without any discrimination
based on race, religion, language, caste, sex, Political opinion,
place of birth or any of such gounds.

4. The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out in
such manner so as not to create any conflict between the work
of  the  Corporation  and  any  work  being  carried  out
simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or any Provincial Council.

5.

(1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  the
Corporation shall be carried out by a Board of Management
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  “the  Board”)  consisting  of  such
number  of  office  bearers  as  may  be  specified  by  the  rules
made under section 7.

(2) (a) The Board of Directors of the foundation that holds
office  on  the  day  immediately  preceding  the  date  of
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Board of the
Corporation until the first Board is appointed or elected in
the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.

5

10

15

20

25

(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.

(3)  (a)  Every  office  bearer  of  the  Board  including  the
patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a period
of three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisor
shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapse
of the said period of three years.

30

Corporation to
ensure no
conflict with
work of
Ministry or
Department of
the Central
Government or
Province

Management of
the Affairs of
the Corporation

4

Dr. S. S. Gunawardana Indigenous Ayurveda
Development Foundation (Incorporation)

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer,  the  Board  shall  having  regard  to  the  rules  of  the
Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

5

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.

(d)  The  founder  member  of  the  Foundation  Dr.  S.  S.
Gunawardana  shall  be  the  first  chairman  of  the  Board  of
Directors.

10

6. Subject  to  the  provision  of  this  Act  and  any  other
written  law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary
or desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including
the power —

Powers of the
Corporation

(a)

to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required for the purpose of the Corporation and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;

(b)

to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations
in cash or kind with or without security:

Provided  that,  the  Board  shall  obtain  the  prior
written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the  subject  of    Finance  in  respect  of  all  foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;

15

20

25

(c)

to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,

30

 Dr. S. S. Gunawardana Indigenous Ayurveda
Development Foundation (Incorporation)

5

promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and  to  open,  operate  and  close  accounts  in  any
banks;

(d)

(e)

(f )

to  invest  any  funds  not  immediately  required  for
the purposes of the Corporation in such manner as
the Board may determine;

to  undertake,  accept,  execute,  perform  and
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;

to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of  officers  and  servants  of  the  Corporation  and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation;

(g)

to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects
of the Corporation.

7.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less than
two thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provision of this Act, or any other
written law, for all or any of the following matters:-

Rules of the
Corporation

(a)

(b)

the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members and
fees payable by members;

the election of office bearers of the Board or vacation
of or removal from office of office bearers and the
powers, duties and functions of the office bearers;

5

10

15

20

25

6

Dr. S. S. Gunawardana Indigenous Ayurveda
Development Foundation (Incorporation)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

the terms and conditions of appointments, powers,
functions and duties of the various officers, agents
and servants of the Corporation;

the procedure to be followed at the summoning and
holding  of  meetings  of  the  Board,  or  any
subcommittee thereof, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;

the  qualification  and  disqualification  to  be  a
members of the Board and the Corporation;

the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and

the  management  of  the  affairs  of  the  Corporation
and  the  accomplishment  of  its’  objects  and
dissolution of the Corporation.

5

10

15

(2) The rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all time be

20

subject to the rules of the Corporation.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be published in

the Government Gazette.

8. The  Board  shall  maintain  a  register  of  members  in
which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members be inscribed.

25

Registry of
members

9.

(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.

Fund of the
Corporation

(2)  All  moneys  received  by  way  of  gifts,  bequests,
donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for an
account of the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more
Banks approved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.

30

 Dr. S. S. Gunawardana Indigenous Ayurveda
Development Foundation (Incorporation)

7

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
as  are  required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under the Act.

5

10.

(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts and
Auditing

(2)  The  Corporation  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to  be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.

10

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited  by a
qualified auditor appointed by Auditor-General in terms of
Article 154 of the Constitution.

(4)  For  the  purpose  of  this  section,  “qualified  auditor”

means —

15

(a)

20

(b)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or  any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute; or

a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of  which,being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute.

25

30

Annual Report

11.

(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the Corporation for each financial year and submit such
report together with the audited  statement of accounts to the
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject
of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary Social
Services Organizations appointed under the voluntary social
services organization (Registration and Supervision) Act, No.
31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of the year
succeeding the year to which such report relates.

8

Dr. S. S. Gunawardana Indigenous Ayurveda
Development Foundation (Incorporation)

(2)  A  separate  Account  relating  to  the  foreign  and
local  moneys  received  by  the  Corporation  during  the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).

5

10

12. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on  the  day    preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this
Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  Corporation  hereby  constituted,
and  all  debts  due  to,  and  subscriptions  and  contributions
payable to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act.

Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation

15

13. Subject to the provision of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,
movable or immovable which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition
or  otherwise,  and  all  such  property  shall  be  held  by  the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under section 7, with power
to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of
the same.

Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable

20

25

14. The  moneys  and  property  of  the  Corporation
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion of the objects of the Corporation and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by
way  of  dividend,  bonus  or  profit  to  the  members  of  the
Corporation.

Application of
moneys and
property

15.

(1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
to  any  instrument  whatsoever,  except  in  the  presence  two
members of the  Board  who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

30

Seal of the
Corporation

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
an  office  bearer  of  the  Board  as  may  be  decided  by  such
Board.

 Dr. S. S. Gunawardana Indigenous Ayurveda
Development Foundation (Incorporation)

9

16.

(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains  after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution having objects
similar  to  those  of  the  Corporation,  and  which  is    by  the
rules  thereof,  prohibited  from  distributing  any  income  or
property among its members.

5

10

(2)  For  the  purpose  of  subsection  (1)  the  appropriate
institution  shall  be  determined  by  the  members  of  the
Corporation immediately before the dissolution at a general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17. Nothing  in this Act contained  shall prejudice or
affect  the  rights  of  the  Republic  of  any  body  politic  or
corporate.

15

18.

In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Property
remaining on
dissolution

Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others

Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of
inconsistency

10

Dr. S. S. Gunawardana Indigenous Ayurveda
Development Foundation (Incorporation)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

