THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

Part II of October 15, 2021

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 18.10.2021)

RE-AWAKENING  EAST  ORGANIZATION
(INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Re-Awakening East Organization

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Buddhika Pathirana, M.P.
for Matara District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Re-Awakening East Organization
(Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE RE-AWAKENING EAST ORGANIZATION
(INCORPORATION)

WHEREAS  a  organization  called  and  known  as  the  “Re-
Awakening East Organization” has heretofore been created
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all
object  and  matters  connected    with  the  said  Organization
according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Organization  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to
grant the application :

BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Re-Awakening  East

Short  title

Organization  (Incorporation) Act, No.      of  2021.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of  the “Re-
Awakening East Organization” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Organization”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of   “Re-
Awakening East Organization” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued,  and
shall have full power and  authority to have and  use a common
seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.

Incorporation
of  the  Re-
Awakening
East
Organization

5

10

15

20

25

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be —

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

(a) to grant aid and support physically and qualitatively
to  relevant  institutions  in  order  to  facilitate  school
children  and  university  students  to  carry  out  their

2

Re-Awakening East Organization
(Incorporation)

studies effectively for the purpose of enhancement of
primary, secondary and tertiary education;

(b) to identify inborn talents of youths at the rural, district
and provincial levels in the fileds of sports, literary,
arts and culture to inspire them to harness their inborn
talents through provision of the required infrastructure
facilities for the purpose of the youth development;

(c) to  provide  for  displaying  and  evaluating  skills  of
school children and university students and to confer
awards and certificates to children with talents for the
purpose of promoting the cultural and extra-curricular
skills;

(d) to conduct seminars and implement practical training
programs  to  youths  which  will  enable  the
enhancement  of  curricular  and  extra-curricular
activities;

(e) to conduct career guidance programs time to time to
the youths in order to eradicate the unemployability;

(f) to conduct professional training courses to masons,
carpenters  and  other  skilled  persons  at  the  rural,
district and provincial levels;

(g) to  provide assistance and encourage the importance
of  knowing  languages  and  improve  their  language
skills;

(h) to raise the status of women through education, raising
awareness,  literacy  and  training  programs  for  the
purpose of women empowerment;

(i) to extend support to senior citizens, widows, orphans
and disabled persons to uplift their life standards with
the normal society;

5

10

15

20

25

30

Re-Awakening East Organization
(Incorporation)

3

(j) to  encourage  farmers  engaged  in  traditional  and
export  agricultural  activities  and  carry  out  various
awareness programs for them;

(k) to  encourage  fishermen  at  the  rural,  district,  and
provincial  levels  for  the  purpose  of  fisheries  and
aquatic resources development ;

(l) to  work  in  collaboration  with  local  and  foreign
organizations with objectives similar to those of the
Corporation;

(m) to offer guidance for the conduct of academic lectures,
seminars,  conferences  relevant  to  the  intellectual
development  of  the  people  and  to  organize
exhibitions,  educational  and  propaganda  activities
for this purpose;

(n) to do all such other acts, matters, and things as are
incidental  or  conducive  to  the  attainment  of  the
objectives of the Corporation.

5

10

15

4.  Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other

written law, the Corporation shall have the power to –

Powers  of  the
Corporation

20

(a) open, operate and close bank accounts;

(b) borrow or raise money with or without security and

receive or collect grants and donations;

(c) invest  any  funds  of  the  Corporation  which  are  not
immediately  required  for  the  purpose  of  the
Corporation in a way that may be determined by the
Committee of Management;

25

4

Re-Awakening East Organization
(Incorporation)

(d) purchase,  acquire,  give  on  lease  or  hire,  sell  or
otherwise obtain any movable or immovable property
which  may  be  required  for  the  purpose  of  the
Corporation and which may lawfully be acquired for
those  purposes  and  to  deal  with  or  dispose  of  the
same,  as  it  may  deem  expedient  with  a  view  to
promoting objects of the Corporation;

(e) appoint, employ and dismiss the employees required
for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation
and pay them such remuneration as may be determined
by the Corporation;

(f) enter into, perform or carry out, whether directly or
through any officer or agent authorized in that behalf
by the Corporation, all such contracts or agreements
as may be necessary for the attainment of the objects
or the exercise of the powers of the Corporation; and

(g) appoint  advisory  councils,  committees  or  sub
committees  and  when  necessary  to  carry  out  any
functions of the Corporation as may be determined
by the committee of Management:

Provided  that  the  Corporation  shall  obtain  prior
written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources  of  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister  assigned
the subject of Finance in respect of all foreign grants,
gifts or donations.

5.

(1)  The management of the affairs of the Corporation
shall  be  subject  to  the  rules  of  the  Corporation,  be
administered  by  Committee  of  Management  consisting  of
not more than four office bearers inclusive of the Chairman/
Chief  Executive  Officer,  Secretary,  Treasurer  and  such
number  as  may  be  provided  or  in  rules  and  elected  in
accordance therewith.

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the
Corporation

5

10

15

20

25

30

Re-Awakening East Organization
(Incorporation)

5

(2) No  act  or  proceeding  of  the  Committee  of
Management shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only
of  the  existence  of  a  vacancy  among  its  members  or  any
defect on the election or nomination of a member thereof.

(3) The first Committee of Management shall consist
of the members of the Committee of Management holding
office  on  the  day  immediately  preceding  the  date  of
commencement of this Act and shall continue to hold office
until  a  new  Committee  of  Management  is  elected  in
accordance with the rules made under section 6 of this Act.

6.

(1) It shall be lawful for the corporation, from time
to  time,  at  any  general  meeting  by  a  majority  of  not  than
two-thirds  of  the  members  present  to  make  rules  not
inconsistent  with  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  or  any  other
written law, on all or any of the following matters:-

Rules  of  the
Corporation

(a) the  classification  of  the  members  and  admission,

withdrawal or expulsion of  members;

(b) The  election  of  the  office-bearers,  the  registration
form, vacation of or removal from office of office-
bearers and their powers, conduct and duties;

(c) the  election  of  the  members  of  the  Committee  of
Management and its powers, duties and conduct and
the terms of office of members of the Committee of
Management;

5

10

15

20

25

(d) the  powers,  duties,  functions  and  conduct  of  the
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation;

(e) the  procedure  to  observed  at  and  the  summoning
and  holding  of  meetings  of  the  Committee  of
Management, the times, places, notices and agenda
of such meetings, the quorum thereof and the conduct
of buisiness thereat;

30

6

Re-Awakening East Organization
(Incorporation)

(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds, and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and

(g) the  management  of  the  affairs  of  the  Corporation,

5

and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added or rescined at a like meeting and in like manner
as a rule made under subection (1).

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to

10

the rules of the Corporation.

7. The Secretary of the Committee of Management shall
keep  and  maintain  a  register  containing  the  names  of  the
member of the Corporation.

Registry  of
the  Members
of  the
Corporation

Corporation
may  hold
movable  and
immovable,
property

Funds  of  the
Corporation

15

20

25

8. Subject to the provision of this Act, the Corporation
shall  be  able  and  capable  in  law,  to  acquire  and  hold  any
property both movable and immovable, which may become
vested in it by virtue of any purchase, gift, grant, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act, and subject
to the rules of the Corporation  made under section 6, with
full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of the same.

9.

(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys  heretofore  or  hereafter  to  be  received  by  way  of
gifts,  testamentary  dispositions,  grants,  donations,
contributions or fees on behalf of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Fund of the Corporation in one
or  more  banks  as  the  Committee  of  Management  may
determine. (Fund of the Corporation)

30

(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund or
a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, development
or improvement of the property of the Corporation.

Re-Awakening East Organization
(Incorporation)

7

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money
to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the  Corporation  in
the exercise, performance and discharge of its power, duties
and functions under this Act.

5

(4)  The  financial  year  of  the  Corporation  shall  be  the

calendar yaer.

10. All debts and liabilities of the Organization on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall
be  paid  and  discharged  by  the  Corporation  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to,  subscriptions  and
contributions payable to the Organization on that day shall
be paid to the Corporation for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Organization

11. No member of the Corporation shall for purpose of
discharging  the  debts  and  liabilities  of  the  Corporation  or
for  any  other  purpose,  be  liable  to  make  any  contribution
exceeding the amount due from such member as membership
fees .

Limitation  of
liability  of
members

10

15

12.

(1) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to
be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transaction of the Corporation.

20

Accounts  and
Audit

(2)  The  accounts  of  the  auditor  shall  be  audited  by  a

qualified  auditor.

(3) In this section “qualified auditor” means-

25

(a)

an individual who, being a member of the
Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of
Sri  Lanka,  or  of  any  other  institute
established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the
Council of such institute; or

8

Re-Awakening East Organization
(Incorporation)

(b)

a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute  of  Chartered  Accountants  of
Sri  Lanka  or  of  any  other  institute
established by law, possesses a certificate
of practice as an Accountant, issued by the
council  institute.

13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of  the
President  and  the  Secretary  or  two  other  members  of  the
Corporation  as  may  be  decided  by  the  committee  of
Management who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be independent
of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

14.

If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Corporation,  there
remains any property whatsoever, after the satisfaction of all
its debts and liabilities, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given
or transferred to some other institution having objects similar
to those of the Corporation, and which, is or are by its rules
prohibited from  distributing any income or property among
its or their members. Such institution or institutions may be
determined by the members of the Committee of Management
on or before the dissolution of the Corporation.

5

10

15

20

25

15. Nothing  contained  in  this  Act  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic, or
corporate or of any other person except such as are mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by, from or under them.

Savings  of
the  rights  of
the  Republic
and  others

30

16.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

Re-Awakening East Organization
(Incorporation)

9

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

