the Gazette of the Democratic 
SocialiSt republic of 
Sri lanka

part ii of September 15, 2023

Supplement 

( Issued on 15.09.2023 )

anti-terroriSm
a
bill
to make provision for the protection of the national Security of  Sri lanka and 
The People of Sri Lanka from Acts of Terrorism, Other  Offences Associated with 
Terrorism  and  Certain  Specified Acts  Constituting  The  Offence  of  Terrorism 
Commited  within or outside Sri Lanka; for the Prevention of the use of Sri Lankan 
Territory  and  its  People  for  the  Preparation  for  Terrorism  Outside  Sri  Lanka; 
to  Provide  for  the  Detection,  Identification, Apprehension, Arrest,  Detention, 
Investigation, Prosecution and Punishment of any Person who has Committed An 
Act of Terrorism or any other  Offence Associated with Terrorism; for The Repeal 
of The  Prevention  of  Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) Act, No.48 of 1979; and 
for Matters Connected Therewith or Incidental thereto

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Justice, Prison Affairs and 
Constitutional Reforms

printed at the department of government printing, sri lanka

to be purchased at the govt. publications bureau, colombo

Price : 135.00 

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

anti terrorism  

1

lD-o 15/2023 

a n  a c t  to   m a k e   p r o ViSi o n  f o r  t h e 
protection  of  the  national  SecuritY 
of  Sri  lanka   anD  the  people  of   Sri 
lanka  from actS  of  terroriSm,  other  
offenceS  aSSociateD  With  terroriSm  
anD certain SpecifieD actS conStitutinG 
the  offence  of  terroriSm   commiteD  
WITHIN  OR  OUTSIDE  SRI  LANKA;  FOR  THE 
preVention  of  the  u Se  of  Sri  lankan 
territorY  anD  itS  people  for  the 
preparation for terroriSm outSiDe Sri 
LANKA;  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  DETECTION, 
iDentification, apprehenSion,  arreSt, 
Detention,  inVeStiGation,  proSecution 
anD  puni Shment  of  anY  per Son  Who 
haS  committeD an act   of  terroriSm 
or  anY  other    offence  aSSociateD 
WITH TERRORISM; FOR THE REPEAL OF THE 
preVention  of  terroriSm  (temporarY 
PROVISIONS)  ACT,  No.48  OF  1979;  AND  FOR 
matterS  connecteD  thereWith  or  
inciDental thereto

WhereaS,  terrorism  has  seriously  threatened  the 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  Sri  Lanka,  and  has 
caused deaths and serious injury to the citizens of Sri Lanka, 
and has caused vast damage to public and private property of 
Sri Lanka, and has retarded national development; 

Preamble

anD  WhereaS,  terrorism  in  its  various  forms  and 
manifestations is a major threat to the peace and security of 
the community of nations; and, it is a foremost duty of the 
Government  to  protect  Sri  Lanka,  its  people,  and  property 
from acts of terrorism and related acts;

anD WhereaS, Sri Lanka is under obligation to enact 
laws to give domestic legal effect to international instruments 

5

10

2 — PL 014026 — 465 (2023/09)

 
 
 
2 

anti terrorism

relating to countering of any acts of terrorism and related acts 
to which Sri Lanka has become a signatory;

anD  WhereaS ,  the  Government  of  Sri  Lanka  is 
committed to protect other sovereign nations and their people 
from the scourge of acts of terrorism;

5

10

15

20

25

anD WhereaS, Sri Lanka is committed and desirous 
of  eradicating  and  preventing  domestic  and  international 
terrorism  through  enforcing  an  effective  system  for  the 
administration  of  criminal  justice  against  terrorism,  based 
on international norms and standards and domestic needs;

anD WhereaS, the Government of Sri Lanka considers 
the  safeguarding  of  national  security  is  of  paramount 
importance for the purpose of securing due recognition and 
respect of the rights and freedom of the people of Sri Lanka 
and for the protection of territorial integrity and enhancing 
the sovereignty of the people of Sri Lanka;

anD  WhereaS ,  the  Government  of  Sri  Lanka  is 
mindful  of  the  need  to  ensure  just  and  fair  application  of 
the system for the administration of criminal justice against 
terrorism;

noW therefore be it enacted by the Parliament of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -  

1.  This Act  may  be  cited  as  the Anti-Terrorism Act,                     

Short Title

No.     of 2023.

PART I

application of the act 

2. (1) The provisions of this Act shall apply to any person 
who commits an offence under this Act, whether within or 
outside the territorial limits of Sri Lanka, including - 

Application  of 
the Act

anti terrorism  

3

(a)   any citizen of Sri Lanka, who commits an offence 
under this Act, within or outside the territory of 
the Republic of Sri Lanka; 

(b)   any person who commits an offence under this 

5

Act –

(i)   wholly or partly, in Sri Lanka;

(ii)  in or over the territorial waters of Sri Lanka;

(iii)   in the airspace of Sri Lanka;

(iv)   on-board or in respect of an aircraft or vessel 
registered in Sri Lanka or belonging to or used 
by the Government of Sri Lanka;

(v)   on-board or in respect of an aircraft or vessel 
within the territory of Sri Lanka including the 
territorial waters and airspace of Sri Lanka;

(vi)   wholly or partly within the office premises of 
a diplomatic or consular mission of Sri Lanka 
or in respect of such premises, or a consular 
officer of Sri Lanka, or at the residence of the 
Head of such diplomatic or consular mission or 
at the residence of any diplomatic or consular 
officer or any other employee of such mission;     

(vii)   wholly  or  partly  within  the  office  premises 
situated outside Sri Lanka of a statutory board 
of the Government of Sri Lanka or in respect 
of such premises, or within the residence of an 
employee of such statutory board;

(c) 

 any person, who commits an offence under this 
Act, within or outside the territory of the Republic 
of Sri Lanka in respect of -

10

15

20

25

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 

anti terrorism

(i)  a citizen of Sri Lanka including a citizen 
deployed in an international peace-keeping 
or monitoring mission;

(ii)  a property owned by the State; 

(d)  any person who had been a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
and commits an offence under this Act, within or 
outside the territory of the Republic of Sri Lanka:

  Provided  however,  provisions  of  this Act 
shall be enforced in respect of such person, only 
if he continues to have his habitual residence in 
Sri Lanka:

  Provided further, that if he does not have his 
habitual residence in Sri Lanka, provisions of this 
Act, may be enforced with the concurrence of the 
foreign State of which he is a citizen; and

(e)   any person who has his habitual residence in Sri 
Lanka, commits an offence under this Act, within 
or  outside  the  territory  of  the  Republic  of  Sri 
Lanka.

5

10

15

20

(2) For the purpose of this section-

“habitual  residence”  means  the  customary  place  of 

residence of a person;

“property  owned  by  the  State”  includes  property 

owned by-

(a)  public  corporations  and  statutory  funds  or 

boards; 

(b) businesses and other undertakings vested in the 
Government by or under any written law; and

(c) any company registered or incorporated under 
the  Companies Act,  No.7  of  2007  in  which 
the Government or a public corporation holds 
fifty per centum or more of the shares of that 
company.

25

30

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
anti terrorism  
PART II

5

offenceS anD penaltieS

3. (1) Any person, who commits any act or illegal omission 

specified in subsection (2), with the intention of –

Offence of 
Terrorism

5

(a) intimidating the public or a section of the public; 

(b)  wrongfully or unlawfully compelling the Government 
of  Sri  Lanka,  or  any  other  Government,  or  an 
international organization, to do or to abstain from 
doing any act; or

10

(c) propagating war or, violating territorial integrity or 
infringement  of  sovereignty  of  Sri  Lanka  or  any 
other sovereign country, 

commits the offence of terrorism.

(2) An act or an illegal omission referred to in subsection 

15

(1) shall be -

(a) murder; 

(b) hurt;

(c) hostage taking;

(d) abduction or kidnapping;

20

(e) causing serious damage to any place of public use, 
a  State  or  Governmental  facility,  any  public  or 
private transportation system or any infrastructure 
facility or environment; 

(f)  committing  the  offence  of  robbery,  extortion  or 

25

theft, in respect of State or private property;

(g) causing serious risk to the health and safety of the 

public or a section thereof;

 
 
 
 
 
6 

anti terrorism

(h)  causing  serious  obstruction  or  damage  to,  or 
interference  with,  any  electronic  or  automated 
or  computerized  system  or  network  or  cyber 
environment of domains assigned to, or websites 
registered  with  such  domains  assigned  to  Sri 
Lanka;

(i) causing the destruction of, or serious damage to, 

religious or cultural property; 

(j)  causing  serious  obstruction  or  damage  to,  or 
interference  with  any  electronic,  analog,  digital 
or  other  wire-linked  or  wireless  transmission 
system including signal transmission and any other 
frequency-based transmission system; 

(k)  without  lawful  authority,  importing,  exporting, 
manufacturing,  collecting,  obtaining,  supplying, 
trafficking, possessing or using firearms, offensive 
weapons, ammunition, explosives, or any article 
or  thing  used  or  intended  to  be  used  in  the 
manufacture  of  explosives,  or  combustible  or 
corrosive substances or any biological, chemical, 
electric, electronic or nuclear weapon, other nuclear 
explosive device, nuclear material or radioactive 
substance or radiation emitting device; or

(l)  committing  an  act  which  constitutes  an  offence 
within  the  scope  of  the  Convention  on  the 
Suppression of Terrorist Financing Act, No.25 of 
2005.

(3)  For  the  purpose  of  subsection  (2),  “place  of  public 
use” includes any highway and any other premises or place 
to which at the material time the public have or are permitted 
to have access, whether as of right or otherwise. 

5

10

15

20

25

30

Penalty for 
the offence of 
terrorism

anti terrorism  

7

4. (1) Any person who-

(a) commits the offence specified in paragraph (a) 
of subsection (2) of section 3 with the intention 
to cause death, and causes the death of any other 
person in the course of committing such offence, 
shall,  upon  conviction  by  the  High  Court  be 
punished with imprisonment for life;

(b) commits  an  offence  under  subsection  (2)  of 
section  3  other  than  the  offence  referred  to  in 
paragraph (a), shall upon conviction by the High 
Court  be  liable  to  rigorous  imprisonment  for  a 
term not exceeding twenty years and to a fine, 
not exceeding rupees one million.

5

10

(2) Where  any  person  is  convicted  by  any  court  of  any 

15

offence under section 3 or 5, - 

20

25

30

(a)    the  court  may,  by  virtue  of  that  conviction, 
in  addition  to  any  penalty  that  the  court  shall 
impose for such offence, forfeit to the Republic 
all property both movable and immovable of that 
person; and 

(b)  any  alienation  or  other  disposal  of  property 
effected by such person after such conviction shall 
be deemed to have been, and to be, null and void. 

5.  (1) Any  person  who  attempts,  abets  or  conspires  to 
commit an offence under section 3, or does any act preparatory 
to the commission of an offence under section 3, shall upon 
conviction by the High Court, be liable to imprisonment of 
either description for a term not exceeding fifteen years and 
to a fine, not exceeding rupees one million.

Penalty for 
attempt to 
commit the 
offence of 
terrorism

(2) If such person has committed the offence of terrorism 
consequent to the commission of an offence under subsection 
(1), such person shall be liable to the same penalty imposed 
for the offence of terrorism as if he has committed the offence 
of terrorism. 

 
Offences 
associated 
with 
proscribed 
terrorist 
organizations 
and 
movements

8 

anti terrorism

6. (1) Any person who-

(a)  joins, functions or serves as a leader, member of 

or a cadre of;

(b)  supports or directs, at any level, the activities of;

5

(c)  recruits, entices or encourages any person to be 

a member of or a cadre of,

a proscribed terrorist organization or movement of which the 
objective is to commit the offence of terrorism under section 
3, commits an offence under this Act.  

10

15

(2) Any person who commits robbery, extortion, theft of 
property or otherwise obtains money or any property or other 
material, for or on behalf of a proscribed terrorist organization 
or a movement an objective of which is to commit the offence 
of terrorism under section 3, commits an offence under this 
Act.

7. Any person who-

Specified acts

(a) commits an offence under Part III of the Assistance to 
and Protection of Victims of Crime and Witnesses Act, 
No.10 of 2023, with regard to a victim of an offence 
under this Act or a witness to the commission of an 
offence under this Act; or

20

(b) possesses an article for the purpose of commission, 
preparation, or instigation of the offence of terrorism 
referred to in section 3 of this Act,

25

commits an offence under this Act.

8. Any  person  who  harbours,  conceals,  or  in  any  other 
manner, wrongfully or illegally prevents, hinders or interferes 
with the identification, arrest, custody or detention of a person 
knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe that such 

Aggravated 
criminal acts 
associated 
with terrorism

  
 
anti terrorism  

9

person  has  committed  or  is  concerned  in  committing  an 
offence under this Act commits an offence under this Act.

9. Any person who-

Terrorism 
associated acts

5

10

15

20

25

30

(a)  gathers  any  confidential  information,  having  the 
intention of supplying such information to a person; 
or 

(b) supplies any confidential information to a person,  
knowing or having reasonable grounds to believe 
that  such  information  will  be  used  by  such  other 
person  to  commit  or  conspire,  abet,  attempt  an 
offence under this Act, 

commits an offence under this Act:

Provided however, nothing published in good faith 
with  due  diligence  for  the  benefit  of  the  public  or  in  the 
national interest in printed and electronic media, or in any 
academic publication, shall be deemed to be an offence under 
this section.

10. (1) Any person - 

(a) who publishes or causes to be published a statement, 
or  speaks  any  word  or  words,  or  makes  signs 
or  visible  representations  which  is  likely  to  be 
understood by some or all of the members of the 
public  as  a  direct  or  indirect  encouragement  or 
inducement for them to commit, prepare or instigate 
the offence of terrorism; and 

(b) such person- 

(i)  intends,  directly  or  indirectly  to  encourage  or 
induce the public to commit, prepare or instigate 
the offence of terrorism; or 

(ii)  is  reckless  as  to  whether  the  public  is  directly 
or  indirectly  encouraged  or  induced  by  such 

Encour-
agement of 
terrorism

 
 
10 

anti terrorism

statement  to  commit,  prepare  or  instigate  the 
offence of terrorism,

commits an offence under this Act.

5

(2)  The  provisions  of  subsection  (1)  shall  apply  to  any 
person who publishes or causes to be published a statement 
referred to in that subsection using–

(a) print media;

(b) internet; 

(c) electronic media; or

10

(d) other form of public notice.

(3)  For  the  purposes  of  subsection  (1),  a  "statement" 

includes every statement –

(a)  which  glorifies  the  commission  of  the  offence 
of  terrorism  or  preparation  for  the  offence  of 
terrorism; and

15

(b) from which the public may reasonably be expected 
to  infer  that  what  is  being  glorified  is  being 
glorified as conduct that should be emulated by 
them in existing circumstances,

20

but does not include an opinion, legitimate criticism, satire, 
parody. caution or imputation made in good faith.

(4) For the purposes of this section, the question as to how 
a statement is likely to be understood and what members of 
the public could reasonably be expected to infer from it shall 
be determined, having regard both- 

25

(a) to the contents of the statement as a whole; and 

(b)  to  the  circumstances  and  the  manner  of  its 

publication.

      
anti terrorism  

11

(5)  If  any  person  proves  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  High 
Court that a statement referred to in subsection (2) neither 
expressed  his  views  nor  had  his  consent  or  approval  for 
publication in all the circumstances of the publication of the 
statement, the court may order that such person is not guilty 
of an offence under this section.

5

11. (1) A person commits an offence under this section if 

such person -

Dissemination 
of terrorist 
publications

(a)  distributes or circulates a terrorist publication;

10

(b)  gives, sells or lends a terrorist publication;

(c)  offers for sale a terrorist publication; 

(d)  provides a service to others that enables them 
to obtain, read, listen to or look at a terrorist 
publication or to acquire it by means of a gift 
or sale;

(e)  transmits the contents of a terrorist publication 

electronically; or

(f)  keeps a terrorist publication in his possession 
with  the  intention  of  using  it  for  a  purpose 
referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b); and

such person-

(a) intends,  directly  or  indirectly  to  encourage 
or  induce  the  public  to  commit,  prepare  or 
instigate the offence of terrorism; or 

(b) is reckless as to whether the public is directly 
or  indirectly  encouraged  or  induced  by  the 
statement to commit, prepare or instigate the 
offence of terrorism.

15

20

25

30

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall apply to a person 
who  commits  any  act  referred  to  in  paragraph  (a)  of  that 
subsection using-

 
12 

anti terrorism

(a) print media;

(b) internet;

(c) electronic media; or 

(d) other form of public notice.

5

(3)  For  the  purposes  of  subsection  (1),  a  "terrorist 
publication" is a publication to be understood by some or all 
of the persons to whom it is or may be available –

(a)  as  direct  or  indirect  encouragement  or  other 
inducement to them to commit or, to prepare for, 
the offence of terrorism; or

10

(b)  that  the  matter  contained  therein  is  useful  in  the 
commission of, or preparation for, the offence of 
terrorism.

(4) For the purposes of subsection (3), a "matter" includes 

15

every matter–

(a)  which  glorifies  the  commission  of  the  offence  of 
terrorism or preparation for the offence of terrorism; 
and

(b) from which the public may reasonably be expected 
to infer that what is being glorified is being glorified 
as  conduct  that  should  be  emulated  by  them  in 
existing circumstances.

20

(5) For the purposes of this section, the following shall be 
taken into consideration to consider whether a publication is 
a terrorist publication:-

25

(a) to the content of the publication as a whole; and 

(b) to the circumstance in which a particular conduct 

in consequence to that publication has occurred.

anti terrorism  

13

(6) No person shall be deemed to be guilty of an offence 
under  this  section,  if  that  person  proves  to  the  satisfaction 
of the High Court that the matter contained in a publication 
alleged to have been a terrorist publication neither expressed 
his  views  nor  had  his  consent  or  approval  in  all  the 
circumstances of the publication of the same.

5

(7) For the purposes of this section –

"lend" includes let on hire;

10

"publication"  means  an  article  or  record  of  any 
description that contains any of the following: -

(a) matter to be read;

(b) matter to be listened; or

(c) matter to be looked at or watched.

12. (1) A person, if such person -

15

20

25

(a)  provides instruction or training, to commit or 
to prepare for the offence of terrorism or to 
assist the commission of, or to prepare for the 
offence of terrorism under section 3; and

(b)  knows, at the time he provides such instruction 
or  training  that  the  person  receiving  the 
instruction or training intends to use or is likely 
to use the skills in which he is being instructed 
or trained–

   (i)  for or in connection with the commission 
or preparation for the offence of terrorism 
under this Act; or

  (ii)  for assisting the commission or preparation 
for the offence of terrorism under this Act,

Training for 

terrorism 

 
  
14 

anti terrorism

commits an offence under this section.

(2) A person, if such person -

5

10

(a)  receives  instructions  or  training  to  commit  or 
prepare for the offence of terrorism or to assist 
the commission of or to prepare for the offence 
of terrorism; and

(b) intends, at the time of the instruction or training 
to use the skills which he is being instructed or 
trained –

(i)  for or in connection with the commission or 
preparation of the offence of terrorism; or

(ii)  for assisting the commission or preparation by 

others of the offence of terrorism,

commits an offence under section 6. 

15

        (3) For the purposes of this section "instruction or training" 
means instruction or training –

20

25

(a)  in  the  making  or  use  of  firearms,  explosives  or 
chemical, biological or nuclear weapons; or 

(b)  in  the  use  of,  or  for  designing  or  adapting  any 
method  or  technique  for  doing  anything  for  the 
purpose of or in connection with the commission 
of the offence of terrorism.

13. (1) Any person who commits an offence under sections 
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12, shall upon conviction by the High 
Court  be  liable  to  rigorous  imprisonment  for  a  term  not 
exceeding fifteen years or to a fine not exceeding rupees one 
million or to both such fine and imprisonment. 

Penalty for 
committing 
offences under 
sections 6, 7, 
8, 9, 10, 11 
and 12

(2) Where any person is convicted for an offence under 
sections 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12, in addition to any penalty 

 
 
anti terrorism  

15

imposed  on  such  person  under  subsection  (1),  the  High 
Court may order that any property movable or immovable in 
the possession of such person which the Court considers to 
be connected with the commission of such offence shall be 
forfeited to the Republic.

14.  (1) Any  person  who  attempts,  abets  or  conspires  to 
commit an offence under sections 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12, 
or does any act preparatory to the commission of an offence 
under such sections shall upon conviction by the High Court 
be liable to rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceeding 
ten years or to a fine not exceeding rupees one million or to 
both such fine and imprisonment. 

Penalty for 
attempt 
&.c of 
committing 
offences under 
sections 6, 7, 
8, 9, 10, 11 
and 12

Failure to 
provide 
information to 
be an offence

(2) If any offence specified in sections 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 
and  12  is  committed  consequent  to  an  attempt,  abetment 
or  conspiracy  to  commit  such  offence  or  has  done  any  act 
preparatory to the commission of such offence, the offender 
shall  be  liable  to  the  same  penalty  as  if  he  has  committed 
such offence.

 15. Any person who-

(a)  knowing  or  having  reasons  to  believe  that  any 

other person-

(i)  has committed an offence under this Act; or

(ii)  is  making  preparation,  attempting,  abetting 
or conspiring to commit an offence under this 
Act,

fails to report to the officer in charge of the nearest 
police station; or

(b)   having in his possession any information relating 
to  the  whereabouts  of  any  person  of  whom  he 
knows that has committed an offence of terrorism 
or an offence associated with terrorism, fails to 
provide  such  information  or  provides  false  or 
misleading information, to a police officer,

5

10

15

20

25

30

 
 
 
Disobeying 
lawful orders 
to be an 
offence

16 

anti terrorism

commits an offence under this Act and shall upon conviction 
by  the  High  Court  and  liable  to  imprisonment  of  either 
description for a term not exceeding seven years or to a fine 
not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand or to both such 
fine and imprisonment.

5

16. Any person who -

(a)  violates  or  acts  in  contravention  of  a  lawful 
directive or order made in terms of this Act;

(b) willfully fails or neglects to comply with a direction 

10

issued in terms of this Act; 

(c)  fails  to  provide  information  or  provides  false  or 
misleading information in response to a question 
put  to  him  by  a  police  officer  conducting  an 
investigation under this Act:

15

  Provided  however,  such  person  shall  not 
be  compelled  to  make  any  statement  under  this 
paragraph self-incriminating such person;

(d)  willfully prevents or hinders the implementation of 
a lawful order or directive issued under this Act; or 

20

(e)  prevents or obstructs enforcement of provisions of 

this Act, 

commits an offence, and shall upon conviction by the High 
Court be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two 
years and to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand.

25

17. Any  offence  under  this Act  shall  be  deemed  to  be 
a  cognizable  offence  within  the  meaning  of  the  Code  of 
Criminal Procedure Act and shall be investigated, prosecuted 
and punished in terms of the provisions of this Act, the Code 
of Criminal Procedure Act and other applicable written laws.

Offences to be 
cognizable

 
 
anti terrorism  
PART III

17

INVESTIGATION OF OFFENCES

18.  An  officer  in  charge  of  a  police  station  or  any 
other police officer authorized by an officer in charge of a 
police  station,  shall  be  entitled  to  commence  and  conduct 
investigation of an offence under this Act or an act preparatory 
to the commission of an offence under this Act:

Who may 
conduct 
investigations

  Provided however, where any person commits an offence 
under this Act in the presence of a police officer, or a person 
suspected of having committed an offence is arrested in the 
immediate  aftermath  of  committing  an  offence,  it  shall  be 
lawful for any police officer to arrest such person to question 
and commence the investigation:

  Provided  further,  such  police  officer  shall  forthwith 
inform the officer in charge of the relevant police station, of 
the  commencement  of  such  investigation,  and  conduct  the 
investigation subject to his instructions.

19. Any police officer, member of the armed forces or a 
coast guard officer, may arrest without a warrant, any person-

(a)  who  commits  in  his  presence,  or  whom  he  has 
reasonable  suspicion  to  believe,  that  such  person 
has committed or there is an imminent possibility 
of  committing  by  such  person  an  offence  under 
this Act; 

Arrest by a 
police officer 
and other 
officers

5

10

15

20

25

(b) who has been concerned in committing an offence 

under this Act; 

(c) in respect of whom such police officer, member of 
the armed forces or a coast guard officer receives 
information or a complaint which such officer or 
member  believes  to  be  reliable  that  a  person  has 
committed or concerned in committing an offence 
under this Act; 

30

 
18 

anti terrorism

(d) who is fleeing from Sri Lanka with the intention of 
evading arrest or is evading arrest after committing 
an offence under this Act; or

(e)  who  is  violating  the  conditions  of  bail,  subject 
to  which  such  person  has  been  released,  being  a 
suspect  for  the  commission  of  an  offence  under 
this Act.

20. (1) A person arrested by a member of the armed forces 
or a coast guard officer other than a police officer, shall be 
produced  before  the  officer  in  charge  of  the  nearest  police 
station or a police officer designated, from time to time, in that 
behalf by the Inspector General of Police, without unnecessary 
delay, and in any event within a period not exceeding twenty-
four hours:

Procedure 
when arrest 
is carried out 
by an officer 
other than a 
police officer

  Provided however, where such person has been arrested 
outside the territory of the Republic of Sri Lanka or on board 
any aircraft or vessel, the period of time necessary for the 
journey  from  place  of  arrest  to  the  relevant  police  station, 
shall be excluded in calculating such twenty-four hours period:

  Provided further, if producing the person being arrested 
in terms of the preceding provisions of this subsection before 
the  officer  in  charge  of  the  nearest  police  station  is  not 
practicable due to reasons beyond the control of the person 
who carried out the arrest, the custody of such person shall be 
given to the officer in charge of the next nearest police station. 

(2) The officer who carried out the arrest shall as soon as 
practicable, notify the arrest to a commissioned officer, who 
has been authorized to receive such information.

(3) Subject to the provisions of sections 24 and 25, a person 
so arrested may be questioned and further searched by the 
commissioned officer where it is necessary to protect the life 
of any person, to prevent any act of terrorism or to preserve 
evidence relating to an offence committed under this Act.

5

10

15

20

25

30

anti terrorism  

19

(4) Such commissioned officer shall forthwith inform of 
such arrest to the officer in charge of the nearest police station 
or to a police officer designated by the Inspector General of 
Police in that behalf.

5

10

(5) At the time of taking the person so arrested into the 
custody  of  the  officer  in  charge  of  the  police  station  as 
provided for in this section, the officer who carried out the 
arrest, shall make a statement to such officer in charge of the 
police station, setting out the circumstances relating to the 
arrest carried out by him. 

(6) Such officer shall also handover to such officer in charge 
of the police station all items that may have been found in the 
possession of the suspect, or found from the place of arrest.

15

21. (1) (a) Any person arrested by a police officer, shall 
forthwith,  be  produced  before  the  officer  in  charge  of  the 
police station to which such police officer is attached.

Procedure 
when arrest 
is carried out 
by a police 
officer 

20

25

  (b) Where such production is not practicable, the person 
arrested shall be produced before the officer in charge of the 
nearest police station.

  (2)  It  shall  be  lawful  for  a  police  officer  to  obtain  the 
assistance of a member of the armed forces or a coast guard 
officer to carry out an arrest in terms of this Act, or to obtain 
such assistance to take the arrested person to a police station.

22. (1) Where there is reasonable suspicion of commission 
of an offence under this Act, a police officer, a member of the 
armed forces or a coast guard officer (hereinafter in this Part 
referred to as the “arresting officer”) may-

Power to stop 
and search

(a)  stop  and  search  any  person,  vehicle,  vessel,  train 

or aircraft;

30

(b) question such person;

(c) enter and search any premises or land; and

 
20 

anti terrorism

(d)  take into custody any document, thing or article, 
used, derived out of, connected with or, concerned 
in  committing  or,  reasonably  suspected  of  being 
used, derived out of, connected with, or concerned 
in committing an offence under this Act.

(2) The provisions of section 26 shall mutatis mutandis 
apply  in  respect  of  the  exercise  of  the  powers  relating  to 
issuing  of  a  notification  to  the  relevant  parties  under  this 
section. 

(3) Any  such  document,  thing  or  article  so  taken  into 
custody, shall as soon as practicable be produced before the 
officer in charge of the police station to which the relevant 
police officer is attached, or be produced before the officer in 
charge of the nearest police station. 

5

10

15

20

(4) The officer in charge of the police station referred to 
in subsection (3) shall produce a report in that regard to the 
Magistrate before whom the relevant suspect is produced who 
shall make an appropriate order with regard to the possession 
or  release  of  any  document,  thing  or  article  so  taken  into 
custody.

23. (1) The arresting officer shall inform the person being 
arrested, (hereinafter in this part referred to as the “suspect”) 
at the time of the arrest-

Information 
to be provided 
at the time of 
arrest

(a) the identity of the arresting officer;

25

(b) the offence alleged to have been committed by the 

suspect; and

(c) the right of access of the suspect to an Attorney-at-

Law as provided for in written law.

30

(2)  Every  reasonable  measure  shall  be  taken  to  convey 
the information specified in subsection (1) in Sinhala, Tamil 
or English languages, whichever language is understood by 
the suspect. 

anti terrorism  

21

(3) Where it is not practicable to convey such information 
to  the  suspect  as  specified  in  subsection  (1)  at  the  time  of 
arrest,  such  information  shall  be  conveyed  in  a  language 
understood by him as soon as practicable.

5

24.  Every arrest shall be carried out, with due regard to the 
privacy of the suspect. Every possible measure shall be taken 
to ensure that the arrest of a female suspect is carried out by a 
female arresting officer, or in the presence of a female officer. 

Arrest to be 
carried out 
with due 
regard to 
privacy

10

25. (1) Every possible measure shall be taken to ensure 
that the questioning of any female suspect is carried out by a 
female arresting officer or in the presence of a female officer. 

Searching and 
questioning of 
females

Notification  of 
the arrest

(2) The search of a female suspect, shall necessarily be 

conducted by a female officer.

26. (1) Where any person is arrested under section 20 or 
21, it shall be the duty of the arresting officer to issue to the 
spouse,  father,  mother  or  any  other  close  relative  of  such 
person, forthwith or in any case not later than twenty-four 
hours from the arrest, a notification by way of a document in 
such form as is specified in the First Schedule, acknowledging 
the fact of such arrest. It shall be the duty of the holder of 
such document to return the same to, or produce the same 
before, the appropriate authority when such arrested person 
is released from custody:

  Provided that, where any person is taken into custody 
and it is not possible to issue a document as specified in this 
section,  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  the  arresting  officer  if  such 
officer is a police officer, to make an entry in the information 
book,  giving  reasons  as  to  why  it  is  not  possible,  and  if 
the  arresting  officer  is  a  member  of  the  armed  forces  or  a 
coast guard officer, to report to the officer in charge of the 
police station the reasons why it is not possible to issue such 
document and the officer in charge shall make an entry of such 
fact along with the reasons therefor in the information book.

15

20

25

30

 
   
22 

anti terrorism

(2) Such notification shall include -

(a) the date, time and place of arrest;

(b) reasons for the arrest; 

(c) the location of custody or detention;

5

(d)  the  name,  identification  number  and  rank  of  the 

arresting officer; and

(e)  any  other  information  as  may  be  necessary  for 
the next of kin of the suspect, to have reasonable 
access to him, without prejudice to the conduct of 
investigations.

(3)  If  such  a  person  specified  in  subsection  (1)  is  not 
present, the arresting officer shall inquire from the suspect, the 
identity and whereabouts of a person to whom the notification 
referred to in subsection (1) shall be served, and if the suspect 
provides such information, every possible step shall be taken 
to serve the notification on such person. A copy of the said 
notification shall be served on the suspect.

(4) The officer in charge of the police station wherein the 
suspect is detained shall, as soon as practicable, and in any 
event  not  later  than  twenty-four  hours  of  the  arrest,  notify 
the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka of such arrest 
and detention, substantially in the form set out in the Second 
Schedule, and notify the Inspector General of Police or his 
authorized representative, substantially in the form set out in 
the Third Schedule. 

10

15

20

25

(5) Such notification shall include -

(a) the date, time and place of arrest; 

(b) reasons for the arrest;

(c)  the  location  at  which  the  suspect  is  being  held  in 

30

detention;

anti terrorism  

23

(d)   the  name,  identification  number  and  rank  of  the 

arresting officer;

(e)   any other information that would enable the Human 
Rights Commission of Sri Lanka to have prompt 
access to the suspect; and

(f)   any  other  information  the  Human  Rights 
Commission of Sri Lanka may call for, in order to 
determine  whether  such  arrest  and  detention  has 
infringed the fundamental rights of the suspect.

27.  (1)  The  Inspector  General  of  Police  shall  establish 
and maintain a central database and register, which contain 
information with regard to each arrest, detention, remanding, 
grant of bail, discharge, prosecution, conviction or acquittal 
and punishment of persons arrested under this Act. 

Central 
database and 
register

5

10

15

(2) Such database and register shall also include such other 

information required to determine the -

(a) lawfulness of the arrest, custody and detention of 

the suspect;

(b)  lawfulness  of  the  deprivation  of  liberty  of  the 

20

suspect; and

(c) the need for continued detention or remand. 

(3)  The  Inspector  General  of  Police  shall  provide 
information in respect of the identity of the person arrested, 
date  of  arrest,  reason  for  arrest,  place  of  detention in  such 
database and register, to the Human Rights Commission  of 
Sri Lanka whenever Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka 
so requests.

25

 (4) The information received under subsection (3), shall 
be used only for the purposes of giving effect to the powers 
and functions of the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka.

30

 
 
Production 
before a 
Magistrate

24 

anti terrorism

 28. (1) A suspect-

5

10

15

(a)   who has been arrested and detained by a police 

officer in terms of this Act; or

(b)   who has been arrested by an officer other than a 
police officer and produced before the officer in 
charge of a police station or a designated police 
officer in terms of section 20,

shall be produced before the nearest Magistrate not later than 
forty-eight hours from the time of such arrest:

  Provided however, where the arrest has been carried out 
within the territory of the Republic of Sri Lanka, the period 
of time necessary for the journey from place of arrest to the 
relevant  Magistrate  shall  be  excluded  in  calculating  such 
forty-eight hours:

  Provided further, where the arrest has been carried out 
outside the territory of the Republic of Sri Lanka or on board 
any aircraft or vessel, the period of time necessary for the 
journey from place of arrest to the relevant Magistrate shall 
be excluded in calculating such forty-eight hours.  

20

(2) Where, by the time the suspect is produced before a 

Magistrate-

(a)  a  Detention  Order  has  been  issued  in  terms  of 
section 31, and is placed before the Magistrate for 
his inspection, the Magistrate shall make an order 
to give effect to such Detention Order; or

(b)  a Detention Order has not been issued or has not 
been placed before the Magistrate, the Magistrate 
may -

(i)  if the officer in charge of the relevant police 
station makes an application seeking an order 
to  remand  the  suspect,  based  on  grounds 

25

30

 
 
anti terrorism  

25

that  the  Magistrate  deems  reasonable  in 
the circumstances, order that the suspect be 
placed in remand custody:

  Provided however, where the Magistrate 
is satisfied that there are no such reasonable 
grounds, the suspect may be discharged; or 

(ii)  if the officer in charge of the relevant police 
station requests or has no objection to bail 
being  granted,  release  the  suspect  on  bail 
under the provisions of the Bail Act, No.30 
of 1997, upon conditions to be stipulated by 
such Magistrate, excluding personal bail; or

  (iii)  discharge the suspect, if the officer in charge 
of the relevant police station so requests on 
any ground that the Magistrate is satisfied.   

5

10

15

(3) The Magistrate before whom the suspect is produced, 

shall – 

(a) personally see the suspect, and look into his well-
being and welfare through a private interview; and

20

(b)  record any comment the suspect may provide.

(4)  For  the  purpose  of  this  section  “private  interview” 
means proceedings, either in open court or in Magistrate’s 
chamber in the absence of any police officer who may have 
participated  in  the  arrest,  or  who  has  investigated  into  the 
offence, alleged to have been committed by the suspect.

29. (1) Where the Magistrate is of the opinion, that the 
suspect  may  have  been  subjected  to  cruel,  inhumane  or 
degrading treatment or torture, after taking into account any 
comment  made  by  the  suspect  under  section  28,  and  any 
representation made by the arresting officer or officer in charge 
of the relevant police station, the Magistrate shall -

Magistrate 
to direct the 
suspect to 
a forensic 
medical 
examination

25

30

 
 
   
 
 
 
  
26 

anti terrorism

(a)  direct that the suspect be produced before a Judicial 
Medical officer for medical examination, and a report 
be  submitted  to  the  Magistrate  by  such  Judicial 
Medical Officer; and 

5

(b)  make an order to change the place of detention of 

the suspect.

(2) Where the report of the Judicial Medical Officer reveals 
that there is a probability of the suspect has been subjected 
to torture, the Magistrate shall, after giving an opportunity to 
the suspect and the arresting officer or officer in charge of the 
police station to be heard-

10

(a) direct the suspect for necessary treatment; and

(b) order that the suspect be kept in remand or detention. 

15

(3) Where the Magistrate orders that the suspect be kept 
in  remand  or  detention,  any  police  officer  who  previously 
had access to the suspect shall not have access to the suspect.

(4) The investigation in respect of such suspect shall be 
continued  by  such  other  police  officers  as  directed  by  the 
Inspector General of Police.

20

(5) The Magistrate shall also direct the Inspector General of 
Police to commence an investigation into the alleged torture to 
enable the Attorney General to institute criminal proceedings 
against the person who committed the alleged torture.

25

30.  (1) Any  person  shall  not  be  held  in  remand  for  a 
period exceeding one year from the date of his arrest without 
institution of criminal proceedings:

Maximum 
period of 
remand

Provided  however,  the  period  of  remand  may  be 
extended on an order of a Judge of the High Court, on an 
application made by the Attorney General, which shall not, 
in any case exceed three months at a time.

30

 
anti terrorism  

27

(2)  If  criminal proceedings  are  not  instituted within  the 
period  referred  to  in  subsection  (1),  the  Magistrate  shall 
release the suspect on bail, on conditions to be stipulated by 
the Magistrate.

31. (1) (a) The Inspector General of Police or any officer 
not below the rank of a Deputy Inspector General of Police 
authorized by the Inspector General of Police in that behalf 
may seek a Detention Order to detain a suspect for any purpose 
specified in subsection (2) by way of an application made in 
that behalf in writing to the Secretary to the Ministry of the 
Minister of Defence.

Detention 
Orders

(b) Upon receipt of an application under subsection (1), 
if the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister of Defence is 
satisfied of the existence of reasonable grounds to believe that 
the suspect has committed or has concerned in committing an 
offence under this Act, he may after recording such reasons, 
issue a Detention Order substantially in the form specified in 
the Fourth Schedule, authorizing the detention of the suspect 
in an approved place of detention under approved conditions 
of detention. 

(c) A Detention Order under this section may initially be 

issued for a period not exceeding two months.

(2) A Detention Order under subsection (1) shall include 
reasons for the issuance thereof, and shall be issued solely for 
the following purposes where it is necessary: -

(a)  to  facilitate  the  conduct  of  the  investigations  in 

respect of the suspect;

(b) to obtain material for investigations and potential 
evidence relating to the commission of an offence 
under this Act;

(c) to question the suspect in detention; and 

5

10

15

20

25

30

 
28 

anti terrorism

(d)   to preserve evidence pertaining to the commission 
of an offence under this Act, for such reasons to be 
recorded in the Detention Order.

(3) Where a Detention Order under this section has been 
issued  at  the  time  when  the  relevant  suspect  is  produced 
before  a  Magistrate  under  section  28,  a  certified  copy  of 
such Detention Order shall be placed before the Magistrate 
for inspection.

(4)  A copy of every Detention Order under this section shall 
be served on the suspect being detained, within a period of 
forty-eight hours from such Order and the acknowledgement 
thereof  by  the  suspect  shall  be  obtained  and  filed  in  the 
relevant Magistrate Court. 

(5) A copy of the Detention Order shall be served on the 
next of kin or an adult family member of the suspect within a 
period of forty-eight hours from such Order and the provisions 
of section 26 shall mutatis mutandis apply to the manner of 
serving such copy.

(6)  The  President  shall,  on  the  recommendation  of  the 
Inspector  General  of  Police,  by  Order  published  in  the 
Gazette, specify such number of places as “approved places 
of detention” for the purpose of this section. 

(7) The President shall, in consultation with the Inspector 
General  of  Police  and  the  Human  Rights  Commission  of 
Sri Lanka, specify by Order published in the Gazette, such 
conditions of detention as “approved conditions of detention” 
for the purpose of this section.

5

10

15

20

25

32. (1) The Magistrate before whom a suspect has been 
produced  and  detained  under  the  authority  of  a  Detention 
Order shall, without giving any advance notice to the authority 
in charge of such place of detention-

30

Magistrate to 
visit the place 
of detention

(a)  visit  once  a  week,  the  place  of  detention  of  such 

suspect; and

anti terrorism  

29

(b) interview the suspect and look into his well-being. 

(2) It shall be the duty of the authority in charge of any 
place of detention to provide prompt and unimpeded access 
to the Magistrate.

(3) If the Magistrate observes that the suspect may have 
been subjected to torture or the suspect alleges that he was 
tortured, the Magistrate shall forthwith make order, for the 
suspect to be produced for examination by a Judicial Medical 
Officer, and to submit the report to him. 

(4) After giving the suspect and the relevant police officer 
or  officers  an  opportunity  to  be  heard,  if  the  Magistrate  is 
satisfied  that  there  are  reasonable  grounds  to  believe  that 
the suspect may have been tortured, he shall act in terms of 
subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5) of section 29.

33. (1) The officer in charge of the place of detention in 
which a suspect is detained shall notify the Human Rights 
Commission  of  Sri  Lanka  of  such  detention,  as  soon  as 
practicable  but  in  any  event  not  later  than  seventy-two 
hours from the commencement of detention, for the persons 
authorized by the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka 
to visit the place of detention in terms of the Human Rights 
Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 21 of 1996.

Notification 
of detention 
to the Human 
Rights 
Commission 
of Sri 
Lanka 

(2) A  copy  of  the  Detention  Order  shall  be  served  on 
the  Human  Rights  Commission  of  Sri  Lanka,  as  soon  as 
practicable.

34. An authorized officer of the Human Rights Commission 
of  Sri  Lanka,  shall  without  giving  any  advance  notice,  be 
entitled to -

(a) enter and examine any approved place of detention;

(b) call for and inspect detention registers, Detention 
Orders and other books and documents required to 
be maintained at such place; and  

(c) interview persons being detained at such place.

Human Rights 
Commission  
of Sri Lanka 
to visit an 
approved 
place of 
detention

5

10

15

20

25

30

 
30 

anti terrorism

35. Any  Magistrate  shall  be  entitled,  without  advance 
notice, to enter an approved place of detention, inspect such 
place of detention, registers, Detention Orders and other books 
and documents required to be maintained at such place, and 
interview persons being detained at such place.

5

Magistrates to 
be entitled to 
visit any place 
of detention

36. (1) Where it is necessary to detain a suspect in terms of 
a Detention Order made under section 31 beyond a period of 
two months, the officer in charge of the relevant police station 
shall file a confidential report in the Magistrate Court citing -

Detention 
beyond two 
months to 
be only with 
approval of a 
Magistrate

10

(a) the allegation against the suspect;

(b) the findings of investigation; and 

(c) reasons which require further detention, 

and obtain the approval of the Magistrate for such continued 
detention.

15

(2)  The  Magistrate  shall  ensure  that  the  disclosure  of 

information in such report does not affect the investigation.

(3) The submissions of the police officer seeking extension 
of the period of detention and the objections raised by the 
suspect or his Attorney-at-Law for such extension, shall be 
recorded by the Magistrate. 

20

(4) The Magistrate may order the extension of the period 
of detention or refuse such extension, giving reasons therefor.

(5) (a) Where the Magistrate refuses to grant the extension 
of the Detention Order, he shall inquire whether there exists 
any justifiable reason to continue to remand the suspect.

25

(b) After the inquiry, if the Magistrate is of the opinion that 
there exists reasonable ground to believe that the suspect may 
have committed an offence under this Act, the suspect shall 
be placed in remand custody. 

Maximum 
period of 
detention 
under 
Detention 
Orders

Suspect to 
be produced 
before a 
Magistrate

anti terrorism  

31

(c) Where there are no reasons to believe that the suspect 
has  committed  an  offence  under  this  Act,  he  shall  be 
discharged.

(6)  The  proceedings  under  this  section  may  be  held  in 

5

camera, subject to Article 106 of the Constitution.

37. A suspect shall not be detained for a period exceeding 
twelve months under a Detention Order made under section 
31.

10

38.  (1)  During  the  pendency  of  a  Detention  Order,  the 
suspect shall be produced before a Magistrate once in every 
fourteen days. 

(2)  The  Magistrate  shall  comply  with  the  provisions 
of  section  28  upon  the  suspect  being  produced  before  the 
Magistrate. 

15

(3)  Upon  completion  of  the  period  of  detention  under 
a  Detention  Order,  the  suspect  shall  be  produced  before  a 
Magistrate.

20

(4) Following the examination of a report submitted by the 
officer in charge of the police station on the investigation in 
respect of the offence alleged to have been committed by the 
suspect, if the Magistrate is satisfied that, there exists prima 
facie, a basis to conclude that the suspect has committed an 
offence  under  this Act,  he  shall  direct  that  the  suspect  be 
detained in remand custody.

25

39. (1) A police officer conducting an investigation under 
this Act, shall under the authority of an order issued by the 
Magistrate, be entitled to - 

Police officer 
to have access 
to suspect in 
remand or 
prison 

(a) have access to a suspect placed in remand custody 

and interview the suspect; 

 
32 

anti terrorism

(b) record his statements, with the permission given 
by the Magistrate on an application made to such 
Magistrate in that behalf;

(c)  take the suspect out of the remand for the purpose 
of  conducting  further  investigations  under  the 
authority of an order made by a Magistrate:

  Provided however, an officer of the Prisons 
Department  shall  be  present  at  every  instance 
referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c).

(2)    Where  a  suspect  has  been  convicted  of  any  other 
offence  other  than  an  offence  specified  in  this Act,  and 
serving a term of imprisonment, a police officer conducting 
an investigation under this Act, shall under the authority of 
an order issued by the Magistrate, be entitled to - 

5

10

15

(a)  have  access  to  such  suspect  in  the  prison,  and 

interview the suspect; 

(b)  record his statements, with the permission given by 
the Magistrate on an application made to such 
Magistrate in that behalf;

20

(c)  take the suspect out of the prison for the purpose 
of  conducting  further  investigations  under  the 
authority of an order made by a Magistrate:

  Provided however, an officer of the Prisons Department 
shall be present at every instance referred to in paragraphs 
(a), (b) and (c).

25

40.  (1)  Where  the  officer  in  charge  of  a  police  station 
receives information which he believes to be true, that a person 
remanded under this Act- 

Detention 
during remand

(a) 

is committing an offence under this Act; 

30

(b)  is making preparations or attempting to commit an 

offence under this Act; 

 
 
 
anti terrorism  

33

(c) is attempting to escape from remand custody; or 

(d) had committed an offence under this Act prior to being 
arrested and such officer in charge of a police station 
was unaware of such fact,

5

he shall report such information to the relevant Magistrate. 

(2)  The  Magistrate  shall  immediately  inquire  into  such 
information  and  at  the  conclusion  of  the  inquiry,  if  the 
Magistrate is satisfied that, the officer in charge of the police 
station had acted in good faith and the allegation against the 
suspect made by the police, appears to be well founded, and 
where the Magistrate deems it expedient to keep the suspect 
under  detention,  he  may  on  the  production  of  a  Detention 
Order permit the officer in charge of the police station – 

10

(a) to take custody of the suspect;

15

(b)  to  take  custody  of  the  suspect  and  keep  him  in 

remand;  

(c) to remove the suspect from remand; 

(d)  to  have  such  suspect  detained  in  terms  of  such 

Detention Order; and

20

(e)  to  order  that  the  suspect  be  in  isolation  or  under 

security.  

(3) The Detention Order made under this section shall-

(a) be issued by the Deputy Inspector General of Police 
of the area in which the suspect is remanded;

25

(b) be for a period of two weeks at a time for cumulative 

period of twelve weeks; and

(c)  be  reviewed  by  the  Magistrate  in  every  fourteen 

days.

30

(4) The  transfer  of  the  suspect  from  remand  custody  to 
detention, shall be notified to the Human Rights Commission 
of Sri Lanka.

 
34 

anti terrorism

     41. (1) A suspect arrested under this Act, shall only be 
released from remand custody or detention, after production 
before  a  Magistrate  and  subject  to  any  condition  that  the 
Magistrate may impose.

Release 
from remand 
custody and 
detention 

(2) The release of the suspect shall be notified to the Human 
Rights Commission of Sri Lanka by the officer in charge of 
the relevant police station, giving adequate time as may be 
necessary for the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka 
to send an officer authorized in writing, to be present when 
the release takes place.

42.  (1)  An  Attorney-  at-  Law  representing  a  person 
remanded or detained under this Act, shall have the right of 
access to such person and to make representations on behalf of 
such person, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed 
by regulations made under this Act or as provided for in other 
written law. 

An Attorney- 
at Law to 
have access 
to a person in 
remand or in 
detention

5

10

15

(2) A  person  remanded  or  detained  under  this Act  shall 
have the right to communicate with his relatives, as provided 
for in written law.

20

43. The provisions of sections 115 and 116 of the Code of 
Criminal Procedure Act shall have no application in relation 
to a suspect under this Act.

25

30

44. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the provisions of 
the Code of Criminal Procedure Act shall mutatis mutandis 
apply to any legal proceeding under this Act.

45.  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  section  9  of  the  
Code  of  Criminal  Procedure Act,  the  investigations  and 
proceedings in respect of a suspect under this Act who had 
previously been produced before a Magistrate, shall be held in 
the Magistrate Court in which such Magistrate was presiding 
at the time the suspect was previously produced. 

Certain 
sections of 
the Code 
of Criminal 
Procedure Act 
not to apply

Application 
of the Code 
of Criminal 
Procedure Act

Proceedings 
before 
Magistrate 
Court

 
    
 
    
anti terrorism  

35

46. (1) The place of detention or remand of the suspect, 
detained or remanded, as the case may be, under the provisions 
of this Act, shall be provided with the requirements necessary 
for humane treatment, and such place of detention or remand 
shall be accessible to the family members of the suspect, and 
to  his Attorney-at-Law  with  the  prior  permission  obtained 
from the officer in charge of such place of detention or prison.

Suspect to 
be treated 
humanely

(2) Where it appears to the Human Rights Commission 
of Sri Lanka or the Magistrate, at an inspection of the place 
of detention or remand under the provisions of this Act that 
the  place  of  detention  or  remand,  does  not  conform  to  the 
requirements referred to in subsection (1), such fact shall be 
informed -  

5

10

(a)  to  the  Inspector  General  of  Police  in  cases  of 

15

detention; or

(b)  to  the  Superintendent  of  the  Prisons  in  cases  of 

remand.

(3) It shall be the duty of the Inspector General of Police 
or the Superintendent of the Prisons, as the case may be, to 
take steps to the greatest extent possible, to treat the suspect 
humanely.

20

(4) The officer in charge of the place of detention wherein 

a suspect is kept in custody shall, where the suspect is –

(a) detained for a period exceeding one month; 

25

(b)  placed  in  remand,  pending  commencement  of  the 

trial; or

(c) placed in remand, pending conclusion of the trial,

issue a notification to the next of kin of the suspect and to 
the  Human  Rights  Commission  of  Sri  Lanka,  containing 
following information: -

30

 
36 

anti terrorism

(i)  the  grounds  on  which,  the  extension  of  the 
period of detention or remand was ordered;

5

10

  (ii)  in  situations  where  the  suspect  is  being 
detained,  without  prejudice  to  the  on-going 
investigations,  information  needed  for  the 
investigations to be conducted diligently and 
expeditiously; and

  (iii)  in situations where the suspect is being held in 
remand custody, reasons as to why institution 
of  criminal  proceedings  cannot  be  initiated 
immediately, or the trial cannot be commenced 
immediately or the trial cannot be concluded 
expeditiously, as the case may be. 

PART IV

15

poWerS anD DutieS of certain officerS 
unDer thiS act

47.  For    the  purpose  of  conducting  investigations  into 
offences under this Act and offences under any other written 
law that may have been committed in the course of the same 
transaction, or to prevent the commission of any such offence, 
police officers shall be vested with the powers specified in 
this Part in addition to any power conferred on them by the 
Police Ordinance or the Code of Criminal Procedure Act or 
any other written law, to the extent that may be necessary for 
investigating and preventing offences under this Act. 

20

25

Powers of 
police officers 
under this Act

48. (1) It shall be the duty of every police officer and any 
member of an armed force and a coast guard officer to take 
necessary measures, subject to the provisions of this Act, to 
prevent the commission of an offence under this Act.

Duty of 
certain officers 
to prevent the 
commission of 
offences under 
this Act

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), any such officer may 

30

take such measures-

 
 
5

10

15

20

25

anti terrorism  

37

(a)   in good-faith;

(b)   proportionate to the harm that may be inflicted by 
the commission of the offence alleged to have been 
committed; 

(c)  only  where  all  other  means  of  achieving  the 
objectives of this Act as specified in the Act have 
proved ineffective; and

(d)   only to the extent such measures may be necessary, 
to prevent the commission of an offence under this 
Act  or  for  the  purpose  of  apprehending  persons 
who have committed offences under this Act.

(3) Any such officer shall not use excessive force except 
in the exercise of private defence within the meaning of the 
Penal Code.

49. (1) The Inspector General of Police shall name and 
establish  a  Specialized Anti-Terrorism Agency  of  the  Sri 
Lanka Police, which shall be assigned with the responsibility 
of preventing and countering terrorism, and investigating the 
commission of any offence under this Act (hereinafter referred 
to as the “Specialized Agency”).

Specialized 
Anti- 
Terrorism 
Agency of 
the Sri Lanka 
Police 

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the 
Inspector  General  of  Police  shall  be  entitled  to  assign  any 
investigation or any partly conducted investigation, into the 
commission of an offence under this Act, to any other division 
or unit or to any police station, of the Sri Lanka Police. 

(3)  It shall be the duty of the Specialized Agency, to ‒

(a) maintain the central database;

(b)  maintain  statistics  relating  to  the  commission  of 

offences under this Act; 

 
 
38 

anti terrorism

(c)  conduct  investigations  to  arrest,  and  proceedings 
relating thereto in respect of persons who commit 
offences under this Act;

(d) assess threat situations posed by terrorism, and issue 

5

warnings to the general public; and

(e)  conduct  research  into  terrorism,  and  develop 
investigation  techniques  and  strategies,  best 
practices and standards.

10

15

20

25

50.  (1) Where  any  offence  under  this Act  is  committed 
or  upon  receipt  of  an  information  of  the  commission  of, 
or  preparation  to  commit  an  offence  under  this Act,  the 
Inspector General of Police may appoint a special team of 
investigators  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “Investigation 
Team”) comprising of the following persons, to investigate 
into such offence, or to take necessary measures to prevent 
the same: -

Appointment 
of special 
teams of 
investigators

(a) a police officer designated by name and rank who 
shall be the Head of the Investigation Team;

(b)  such  number  of  other  police  officers  designated 
by  name  and  rank  who  shall  be  the  criminal 
investigators;

(c) such number of legal experts;

(d) such number of crime inspection officers;

(e) such number of forensic medical specialists;

(f) such number of forensic psychologists;

(g)  such  number  of  forensic  scientists,  including 
scientists in serology, genetics, ballistics, explosives 
and chemicals;

(h) such number of finger print experts;

 
anti terrorism  

39

(i) such number of experts in handwriting and suspected 

documents;

(j) such number of computer and automated network 

experts;

5

(k) such number of forensic auditors;

(l) such number of experts in analogy, digital technology 
and mobile and satellite communication technology;

(m) such number of photographers and videographers; 

and

10

(n)  such  number  of  other  experts,  that  the  Inspector 

General of Police may deem necessary.

(2) (a) The Inspector General of Police shall designate a 
police  station  to  the  Investigation  Team  constituted  under 
subsection (1). 

15

20

25

30

(b)  The  officer  in  charge  of  such  police  station  shall, 
in  addition  to  performing  the  general  duties  and  functions 
assigned to such officer under this Act and other written law, 
assist the Investigation Team.

(3) The members of the Investigation Team who are not 
police  officers  shall  be  deemed  to  be  Peace  Officers  for 
the  purpose  of  performing  the  functions  assigned  to  such 
Investigation Team.

51. (1) A police officer not below the rank of a Deputy 
Inspector  General  of  Police  who  is  a  member  of  an 
Investigation  Team  may  with  the  concurrence  of  relevant 
authorities constitute support teams comprising of members 
of any armed force, doctors and other health care workers, 
emergency relief service providers, public servants and other 
necessary persons, to attend the following duties at any scene 
of crime where an offence under this Act has been committed:-

Constitution 
of support 
teams

 
40 

anti terrorism

(a) to rescue and evacuate victims of any offence and 

other persons from the scene of crime;

(b) to provide emergency medical treatments;

(c) to recover dead bodies;

5

(d) to douse fires;

(e)  to  deactivate  explosives  and  other  lethal  and 

dangerous substances;

(f)  to  carry  out  controlled  explosions,  in  order  to 
deactivate lethal and dangerous substances;

10

(g) to remove debris;

(h) to create access routes; and

(i)  to  provide  other  emergency,  humanitarian  and 

security requirements and services.

15

(2) It shall be the duty of every person whose assistance has 
been sought under subsection (1), to provide such assistance, 
as may be required.

20

52. (1) For the purposes of this Act, a police officer not 
below the rank of a Sub-Inspector of police who has been 
authorized  in  writing  by  an  officer  in  charge  of  a  police 
station to conduct an investigation in terms of this Act, shall 
be empowered to require any person who has been suspected 
of committing an offence under this Act or whose presence 
or assistance is required to conduct such investigation to –

Powers to 
facilitate 
investigations 

(a) be present for an interview;

25

(b) answer questions put to him;

(c)  provide information;

(d)  give statements;

 
anti terrorism  

41

(e) give statements on affidavit or oath:

  Provided that, a statement on affidavit or oath 
shall only be obtained on an order of a Magistrate;

(f)  tender  any  document  or  thing  that  may  be  in  the 

possession or control of such person;

(g) assist in conducting of an investigation;

(h)  where  the  person  is  suspected  for  committing  an 
offence under this Act, make himself available for a 
physical examination having due regard to gender 
sensitivity and privacy of the person; and

(i)  make  himself  available  for  taking  of  photographs, 
video recording and taking finger, palm or foot prints 
where  the  person  is  suspected  for  committing  an 
offence under this Act.

(2)  No  person  shall  be  bound  to  make  a  statement  or 
produce an affidavit implicating or incriminating himself in 
the commission of an offence.

(3) Any  person  who  is  to  be  interviewed  and  whose 

statement is to be recorded, shall-

(a) be informed of his right to have access to an Attorney-
at-Law of his choice to obtain legal advice prior to 
such interview; and

(b)  be  interviewed  and  the  statement  be  recorded  in  a 
language understood by such person, and the services 
of an interpreter be obtained where necessary:

  Provided that, where the services of an interpreter are 
obtained, the interview shall be recorded with its translation, 
and be transcribed, and preserved for future verification.

5

10

15

20

25

 
 
 
 
 
42 

anti terrorism

(4)   A  police  officer  acting  under  the  provisions  of  this 
section shall inform the person prior to being interviewed, of 
his rights under this Act.

(5) Wherever possible, the interview shall be audio-visually 

5

recorded.

53.  Where  the  person  in  charge  of  any  vehicle,  vessel, 
train or aircraft disobeys any order given by a police officer 
or any other person acting on his demand for halting any such 
vehicle, vessel, train or aircraft for the purposes of this Act, 
such police officer or the person may use such force as may 
be necessary to halt such vehicle:

10

Use of force to 
stop a vessel 
or vehicle

  Provided  however,  any  such  force  may  be  used  only 
where all other means of halting the vehicle, vessel, train or 
aircraft have proved ineffective:

15

  Provided further, any such officer shall not use excessive 
force  except  in  the  exercise  of  private  defence  within  the 
meaning of the Penal Code.

54. (1) A police officer shall be entitled to take over the 
control  of  any  vehicle,  vessel,  train,  aircraft  or  unmanned 
aerial vehicle for the purpose of conducting an investigation 
under this Act or for preventing the commission of an offence.

20

Taking over the 
control  of  any 
vehicle, vessel, 
& c. 

(2) Such taking of control shall be promptly reported to 

a Magistrate.

25

 55. (1) For the purpose of this Act, a police officer not 
below the rank of a Deputy Inspector General of Police may 
issue directions to-

(a) suspend or delay, the taking off of any aircraft, or 
the sailing of any vessel, for a period not exceeding 
forty- eight hours; 

Suspension 
or delaying 
the taking 
off or sailing 
of vessel, 
aircraft, & c.

30

(b) land any such aircraft at a designated airport or at 

any other appropriate location; or

anti terrorism  

43

 (c) bring any vessel to any port or harbour or any other 

appropriate location:

  Provided however, no directive under paragraphs (a), (b) 
or (c) shall be issued, without prior approval obtained from 
the Magistrate having jurisdiction in the area within which 
such aircraft or vessel is located. 

  Provided further, the officer issuing the direction shall, 
prior to the issuance of such directive satisfy himself of the 
necessity for issuing the same and shall issue such directive 
subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the 
approval granted by the Magistrate.

(2) The Director General of Civil Aviation appointed under 
the  Civil Aviation Authority Act,  No.34  of  2002,  and  the 
Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force shall be prior informed 
of any such direction issued in respect of any aircraft for the 
purpose of obtaining air-defence clearance.

(3) Where the direction is issued in respect of a vessel of 
the Sri Lanka Navy, the Commander of the Sri Lanka Navy 
shall be given prior notice of such direction.

56.  (1) An  officer  in  charge  of  a  police  station  shall  be 
entitled to directly submit a suspect in custody or a victim 
of an offence to a Judicial Medical Officer for examination. 

Clinical 
forensic 
medical 
examinations 

  (2)  The  report  of  the  examination  shall  be  directly 
submitted  by  the  Judicial  Medical  Officer  to  the  relevant 
officer  in  charge  of  the  police  station,  with  a  copy  to  the 
Magistrate  before  whom  the  suspect  has  been,  or  is  to  be 
produced.

 57. (1) An officer in charge of a police station shall be 
entitled  to  directly,  submit  any  document,  thing  or  article, 
which  he  reasonably  believes  to  be  connected  with  the 
commission of an offence under this Act, to the Government 
Analyst or to any other local or foreign expert for examination 
and analysis. 

Directly 
submitting 
items to 
Government 
Analyst 
or other 
expert 

5

10

15

20

25

30

 
      
   
5

10

15

20

25

30

44 

anti terrorism

(2)  The  report  of  the  examination  shall  be  directly 
submitted by the Government Analyst or other expert, to the 
officer in charge of the relevant police station with a copy to 
the Magistrate before whom the suspect has been, or is to be 
produced.

58. (1) It shall be lawful for a police officer who conducts 
an investigation in respect an offence under this Act to submit 
material  for  investigation  to  any  other  law  enforcement 
agency, if he is of the view that, there exists material indicative 
of that offence, falling under the purview of the investigation 
competency of such other law enforcement agency has been 
committed.

Transfer of 
material for 
investigation

(2) The law enforcement agency referred to in subsection 

(1), may include an agency of any other sovereign country.

59.  (1)  It  shall  be  lawful  for  a  police  officer  with  the 
approval  of  the  Inspector  General  of  Police,  and  with  the 
prior approval obtained from the relevant foreign country to 
conduct an investigation in terms of this Act outside Sri Lanka.

Investigations 
outside Sri 
Lanka 

(2) It shall be lawful for a police officer authorized by the 
Inspector General of Police, with the prior approval obtained 
from the relevant foreign country and the Government of Sri 
Lanka, to undertake and carry out a joint investigation into 
the commission of an offence under this Act, with a criminal 
investigation agency of any other country.

60.  (1)  Where  a  police  officer  not  below  the  rank  of  a 
Senior Superintendent of Police receives reliable information 
that an offence under this Act is committed or is likely to be 
committed, he may issue any one or more of the following 
directives to the public, if he is of the opinion that there is a 
clear and present danger, and that such directive is necessary 
for the purpose of protecting persons from harm or further 
harm, associated with such offence: -

Police 
may issue 
directives for 
the protection 
of the 
public 

(a) not to enter any specified area or premises;

(b) to leave a specified area or premises;

anti terrorism  

45

(c)  not  to  leave  a  specified  area  or  premises  and  to 

remain within such area or premises;

(d) not to travel on any road;

(e) not to transport anything or to provide transport to 

5

anybody;

(f)  to  suspend  the  operation  of  a  specified  public 

transport system;

(g)  to  remove  a  particular  object,  vehicle,  vessel  or 

aircraft from any location;

10

(h) to require that a vehicle, vessel, ship or aircraft to 

remain in its present position;

(i) not to sail a vessel or ship into a specified area until 

further notice is issued;

(j) not to fly an aircraft out of, or into a specified air 

15

space;

(k) not to congregate at any particular location;

(l) not to hold a particular meeting, rally or procession; 

and

(m)  not to engage in any specified activity:

20

25

  Provided however, no directive under paragraphs (a) 
to (m) shall be issued, without the prior approval obtained 
from a Magistrate, who shall prior to the issuance of such 
directive satisfy himself of the necessity for issuing the same 
and may make an order to issue such directive subject to such 
conditions.

(2)  The  Human  Rights  Commission  of  SriLanka  shall 
forthwith  be  informed  of  any  directive  issued  under  this 
section by the relevant officer who issued such directive or the 

 
 
46 

anti terrorism

Magistrate who granted prior approval for any such directive 
under paragraphs (a) to (m).

(3) Any  such  directive,  may  include  exceptions  to  such 
directive,  in  order  to  meet  with  emergency  situations  and 
humanitarian requirements of persons that may be affected 
by any such directive.

5

(4) Any such directive, shall be published in the Gazette 
and be given a wide publicity in the relevant area through 
others appropriate means.

(5) (a) The period of operation of any such directive shall 
not exceed, continuously for more than twenty-four hours at 
a time, and for a total period of more than seventy-two hours.

(b) Where the period of operation of any such directive 
is required to be extended for more than twenty-four hours, 
such extended period shall commence after an interval of not 
less than twenty-four hours, after the expiration of the initial 
period of operation of the directive. 

(6)  The  assistance  of  the  members  of  any  armed  force 
may be obtained by the Inspector General of Police, with the 
prior approval obtained from the Commander of the relevant 
armed force, to give effect to any directive under this section.

(7) For the purpose of giving effect to such directive, it 
shall be lawful for the police officers to cordon-off such area.

(8) During the period of operation of such directive and 
during a twenty-four hours interval between two periods of 
operation, it shall be lawful for any police officer or a member 
of any armed force authorized in that behalf –

10

15

20

25

(a)  to stop, question and search any person found within 
the area within which such directive is effective;

30

(b)  to enter and search any premises; or

anti terrorism  

47

(c) to stop any person who may attempt to enter into or, 
remain in the effective area of such directive and 
question and search such person or his belongings 
and property that may be taken in, or out of such 
area.

(9) Any search conducted in terms of this section shall be 
carried out in a gender sensitive manner, with due respect to 
the dignity and privacy of the person being searched, and while 
ensuring that the search of a female shall only be carried out 
by a female officer.

(10) It shall also be lawful for a police officer or a member 
of the armed forces authorized in that behalf to restrain and 
search any person who may act contrary to the directive.

   (11) Any person, who willfully acts contrary to a directive 
issued under this section, commits an offence, and shall upon 
conviction by a Magistrate be liable to imprisonment for a 
term not exceeding one year or to a fine not exceeding five 
thousand rupees or to both such imprisonment and fine.

(12) An offence under this section shall be deemed to be 
a non-cognizable offence within the meaning of the Code of 
Criminal Procedure Act, if the commission of such offence 
does  not  endanger  the  life  of  any  person  other  than  the 
offender.

PART V

material for inVeStiGationS

61.  (1)  The  officer  in  charge  of  the  relevant  police 
station  shall  be  entitled  to  apply  for  an  order  from  a 
Magistrate  to  require  any  bank,  non-banking  financial 
institution  or  designated  non-finance  business  to  provide 
following information and material to such officer, subject 
to the provisions of the  Convention on the Suppression of 
Terrorist Financing Act,No.25 of 2005, Prevention of Money 

Obtaining 
information 
from banks, 
financial 
institutions, 
& c

5

10

15

20

25

30

 
48 

anti terrorism

Laundering Act, No.5 of  2006  and the  Financial Transactions 
Reporting Act, No. 6 of 2006 : -

(a) information relating to any financial service provided 
by such bank, institution or business, to any person; 

5

(b)  details  of  any  financial  transaction  carried  out  by 

any person; 

(c) details relating to bank accounts, deposits, remittances, 
and withdrawals and financial services provided by 
any such bank, institution or business; 

(d) details relating to securing of financial services by 

any person; 

(e)  a  certified  statement  of  any  account  or  other 
information pertaining to any account or transaction:

  Provided however, such police officer shall be entitled 
to  apply  for  an  order  under  this  section  only  if  there  exist 
reasonable  grounds  of  suspicion  against  any  person  in  the 
commission of an offence under this Act.  

(2) Such Magistrate shall consider the application made by 
such police officer, and make an order in terms of subsection 
(1), where it appears reasonable and necessary for conducting 
an investigation.

(3) The Magistrate shall maintain confidentiality in respect 
of the application and the proceedings pertaining to the same 
shall be held in-camera if requested by such police officer, 
subject to Article 106 of the Constitution.

10

15

20

25

62. (1) The officer in charge of the relevant police station 
shall be entitled to apply for an order from a Magistrate to 
require  any  telecommunication,  satellite  or  digital  service 
or data service provider, to provide information, including -

Obtaining 
information 
from service 
providers       

anti terrorism  

49

(a) information pertaining to services provided or being 
provided by such service provider to any person;

(b)  information  pertaining  to  services  enjoyed  by  any 
person  to  whom  such  services  have  been  made 
available;

(c)  any  information,  data  or  document  or  record  that 
may be stored, archived or otherwise kept, by such 
service provider; and

(d) information pertaining to the uploading or downloading 
of data or information, to or from any instrument 
through  the  service  provided  by  such  service 
provider:

  Provided however, such police officer shall be entitled 
to  apply  for  an  order  under  this  section  only  if  there  exist 
reasonable  grounds  of  suspicion  against  any  person  in  the 
commission of an offence under this Act.

(2) Such Magistrate shall consider the application made by 
such police officer, and make an order in terms of subsection 
(1), where it appears reasonable and necessary for conducting 
investigation.

(3) The Magistrate shall maintain confidentiality in respect 
of  the  application  and  the  proceedings  pertaining  to  the 
same shall be held in-camera subject to Article 106 of the 
Constitution if requested by such police officer. 

63. (1) The officer in charge of a police station shall be 
entitled to  apply  for  an  order  from  a  Magistrate to  require 
from the following officers any information or document for 
the purpose of conducting an investigation in respect of an 
offence under this Act:-

Obtaining 
information 
from 
Government 
or statutory 
institutions      

5

10

15

20

25

30

(a) the Secretary to any Ministry of a Minister;

(b) Secretary General of the Parliament of Sri Lanka;

 
50 

anti terrorism

(c) Commissioner General of Inland Revenue;

(d) Governor of the Central Bank;

(e) Head of the Department of Foreign Exchange;

(f) Director of the Financial Intelligence Unit;

5

(g) Director General of the Securities and Exchange 

Commission of Sri Lanka;

(h) Director General of Customs;

10

15

20

(i) Controller General of Immigration and Emigration;

(j)  Commissioner  General  for  the  Registration  of 

Persons;

(k) Controller General of Imports and Exports;

(l) Registrar of Companies;

(m) Commissioner General of Land; 

(n)  Director  General  of  the  National  Intellectual 

Property Office of Sri Lanka;

(o) the Registrar General

(p) Commissioner General of Motor Traffic;

(q) Director General of Telecommunications;

(r) a Head of any Government department, statutory 

body or other Government institution; or

(s) Chairperson of a Provincial Council or a Chairperson 
or a Special Commissioner of a local authority.

(2) Such Magistrate shall consider the application made by 
such police officer, and make an order in terms of subsection 
(1), where it appears reasonable and necessary for conducting 
investigation.

25

anti terrorism  

51

(3)  The  Magistrate  shall  maintain  confidentiality  in 
respect of the application, and the proceedings pertaining to 
the same shall be held in-camera if requested by such police 
officer, subject to Article 106 of the Constitution.

PART VI

maGiStrate to make orDerS to 
facilitate inVeStiGationS

64. (1) An officer in charge of a police station may for the 
purpose of conducting an investigation on an offence under 
this Act,  make  an  application  to  a  Magistrate  for  making 
orders to facilitate such investigation including-

Magistrate to 
make orders 
on application 
of an officer 
in charge of a 
police station

(a) restraining a suspect from travelling outside Sri 

Lanka;

(b)  by  taking  of  blood,  hair  samples,  swab  and 
biometrics including the finger impressions of 
a person;

(c) by conducting of identification parades;

(d)  forwarding  productions  to  the  Government 
Analyst, any other local or foreign expert or to 
a government forensic medical specialist;

(e)  conducting of relevant examinations and tests 

by experts;

(f) 

freezing of bank accounts or freezing of other 
financial deposits and accounts, subject to any 
condition that may be imposed:

  Provided  that,  the  Magistrate  may  on  his 
own  motion  or  on  an  application  made  in  that 
behalf, vary such order, or permit the use in good 
faith of the funds in such accounts by the holder 
of any such account, for any legitimate purpose;

5

10

15

20

25

30

 
52 

anti terrorism

(g)  suspending  or  varying  the  provision  of  services 

being provided by any service provider:

  Provided that, the Magistrate may either on his 
own motion or on an application made in that behalf, 
vary such order, enabling the use in good faith of 
such services by the recipient of any such service, 
for any legitimate purpose; or

(h) opening of safe boxes.

(2)  The  Magistrate  shall,  upon  being  satisfied  that  the 
application is made in good faith and the assistance sought 
is  reasonably  necessary  for  the  purpose  of  facilitating  the 
conduct  of  investigations,  make  the  order  sought  under 
subsection (1).

65. (1) For the purposes referred to in subsection (2), a 
police officer not below the rank of a Superintendent of Police 
may make an application to a Magistrate seeking for an order 
authorizing such officer -

Magistrate 
to authorize 
unlocking 
data and 
information

(a)  to  direct  any  person  who  provides  locking  or 
encryption services pertaining to any communication 
or  storage  services  or  equipment  of  any  data  or 
information or other thing, to unlock or unencrypt 
the  service  or  equipment  and  provide  information 
contained therein to such police officer;

(b)    to  intercept,  read,  listen  or  record  any  postal 
message or electronic mail or any telephone, voice, 
internet, or video conversation, or conference or any 
communication through any other medium; or

(c) to access any, analogue or digital data or information 

exchange or transfer system:

5

10

15

20

25

30

Provided  however,  such  police  officer  shall  be  entitled 
to  apply  for  an  order  under  this  section  only  if  there  exist 

anti terrorism  

53

reasonable  grounds  of  suspicion  against  any  person  in  the 
commission of an offence under this Act.

(2) The purposes for which the Magistrate may make an 

order under subsection (1) shall be –

5

(a)  to  determine  the  identity  of  a  person  who  has 

committed;

(b)  to  determine  the  location  of  a  person  who  has 

committed;

(c) to facilitate the conduct of an investigation into;

10

(d)  to  gather  evidence  against  a  person  who  has 

committed; 

(e)  to  determine  whether  one  or  more  persons  are 
conspiring,  planning,  preparing  or  attempting  to 
commit; or

15

(f) to take measures to prevent the commission of,

an offence under this Act.

20

25

(3)  Such  Magistrate  shall,  if  he  is  satisfied  that  the 
application is made in good faith and making of such order 
is reasonably necessary for conducting investigations, issue 
such order.

66. (1) On an application made by an officer in charge of 
a police station conducting an investigation into an offence 
under this Act, the Magistrate to whom such application is 
made, may question and record the statement of any suspect, 
who is produced by such officer before the Magistrate.

Magistrate 
to record 
statements       

(2) The recording of such statement, shall be in compliance 

with the following conditions: -

 
 
54 

anti terrorism

(a) the person shall be informed of his rights under this 

Act;

(b)  the  person  shall  be  inquired  in  order  to  ascertain 
whether such person wishes to voluntarily answer the 
questions put to him, and the Magistrate shall proceed 
to record a statement, only if he is satisfied that such 
person is voluntarily making such statement, without 
any promise, inducement or threat;

(c)  a  questionnaire  shall  be  obtained  from  the  officer 
in  charge  of  the  police  station  for  the  purpose  of 
questioning such person;

(d) the person shall be warned that in the event of criminal 
proceedings being instituted against him, the contents 
of the statement that he will make, may be used as 
evidence against him;

(e) whatever statement such person wishes to give shall 
be  recorded,  in  addition  to  answers  given  to  the 
questions put to him;

(f)  in  situations  where  the  person  being  interviewed, 
does  not  understand  the  language  spoken  by  the 
Magistrate,  the  services  of  an  interpreter  shall  be 
obtained,  in  order  to  translate  the  questions  and 
the answers into the languages understood by such 
person and the Magistrate; and

(g)  a  transcript  of  the  interview  and  a  video  recording 
thereof  shall  be  prepared  and  retained  for  future 
verification.

(3)  Where  the  person  who  makes  such  statement  is 
subsequently  indicted  for  having  committed  an  offence 
under this Act, such statement shall, subject to the provisions 
specified in subsection (2) of section 78 and to the provisions 
of  section  24  of  the  Evidence  Ordinance  be  admissible  in 

5

10

15

20

25

30

 
anti terrorism  

55

evidence  against  such  person  at  proceeding  in  respect  of 
such offence.

5

(4) Where the person who makes such statement is called 
by the Attorney General as a witness to testify against a person 
who is indicted for having committed an offence under this 
Act, either the entirety of the statement or a part thereof, may 
be marked and produced in evidence, as part and parcel of the 
examination-in-chief of such person.

10

(5) (a) Where the suspect declines to make a statement to 
the Magistrate, the Magistrate shall communicate such fact 
to the relevant police officer.

(b)  If  at  the  time  the  suspect  so  declines  to  make  a 
statement,  he  is  in  detention  in  terms  of  a  detention  order 
or, is in remand custody, he shall be returned to detention or 
remand custody, as the case may be.

15

67. (1) When the investigation is completed, the officer 
in  charge  of  the  relevant  police  station  shall  submit  to  the 
Magistrate, a report notifying the completion of investigations.

Completion of 
investigations

20

(2) A Detention Order under this Act shall not be issued 
or extended in respect of a suspect in respect of whom the 
investigation has been completed.

(3) If at any time, an investigation in respect of any person 
arrested under this Act, is to resume, the Magistrate and the 
Human Rights Commission of SriLanka shall be informed of 
such resumption and the completion of further investigation.

25

68.  The provisions of the Code of Criminal procedure Act 
shall mutatis mutandis apply in respect of submission of notes 
of investigation to the Attorney General, upon completion of 
the investigations. 

Notes of 
investigations 
to be 
submitted to 
the Attorney 
General 

 
    
56 

anti terrorism

PART VII

inStitution of criminal proceeDinGS 

5

69.  The  Attorney  General  may  indict  and  institute, 
undertake or carry-on criminal proceedings in respect of an 
offence committed under this Act and an offence committed by 
such person under any other law in the course of committing 
such offence under this Act. 

Attorney 
General to 
institute 
proceedings 

Suspension 
and 
deferment of 
indictment      

70. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any 

other written law, where –

10

(a) death or grievous hurt has not been caused to any 

person; or

(b) the security of the State and the people of Sri Lanka 
has not been seriously compromised or affected,

15

the Attorney General may, having due regard to the facts 
specified in subsection (2), and subject to one or more 
conditions referred to in subsection (3), suspend and defer 
the institution of criminal proceedings against such person 
alleged to have committed an offence under this Act, for 
a period not exceeding twenty years.

20

(2) Where the Attorney General suspends and defers the 
institution of criminal proceedings under subsection (1), he 
shall pay due regard to-

(a) the State policy;

(b) the national interest and public interest;

25

(c) views of the Inspector General of Police;

(d) views of the victims of the offence; and

(e) the representations that may be made by the accused 
person or, on his behalf by his Attorney-at-Law.

 
anti terrorism  

57

(3)  Where  the Attorney  General  decides  in  terms  of 
subsection (1) to suspend and defer the institution of criminal 
proceedings against any person alleged to have committed 
an offence under this Act, he shall prefer an application to 
the High Court, to obtain the sanction of such Court to the 
imposition of one or more of the following conditions on such 
person as consideration for the suspension and deferment of 
the institution of criminal proceedings against such person:-

(a) to publicly express remorse and apology before the 
High  Court,  using  a  text  issued  by  the Attorney 
General as instructed by the Court;

(b) to provide reparation to victims of the offence, as 

specified by the Attorney General;

5

10

(c)  to  participate  in  a  specified  programme  of 

15

rehabilitation;

(d) to publicly undertake that such person refrains from 

committing an offence under this Act;

(e) to engage in specified community or social service; 

or

20

(f) to refrain from, committing any indictable offence 

or, breach of peace.

25

(4)  The  High  Court  shall,  upon  consideration  of  the 
application made by the Attorney General under subsection 
(3), order the person alleged to have committed the offence 
to appear before the Court, and shall notify such person of 
the  conditions  imposed  by  the  Court  and  be  afforded  an 
opportunity  to  be  heard  and  consent  to  the  conditions  so 
imposed by the Court.

30

(5)  If  such  person  fulfils  the  conditions  imposed  under 
subsection (4) during the period stipulated for fulfilling such 
conditions, the Attorney General shall not institute criminal 

 
58 

anti terrorism

proceedings  against  such  person  in  respect  of  the  offence 
alleged to have been committed.

5

(6) If the person fails without valid excuse to comply with 
such conditions, the Attorney General may with notice to the 
suspect, institute criminal proceedings against such person 
after the lapse of the period given to the suspect to fulfil such 
conditions.

PART VIII

trial

10

71. Every person who commits an offence under this Act 
shall be triable without a preliminary inquiry, on indictment 
by the Attorney General, before a Judge of the High Court, 
sitting without a jury:

Trial in 
the High 
Court 

15

Provided however, the Chief Justice may direct that the 
trial shall be held before the High Court at Bar, in terms of 
the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, where-

(a) the Attorney General so requests the Chief Justice; 

(b) the Chief Justice is of the opinion that the interests of 

Justice so demand; or

20

(c) the accused or an Attorney-at-Law on his behalf so 

applies.

72. (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act 
or any other written law, the Secretary to the Ministry of the 
Minister of Defence may-

Detention until 
conclusion of 
trial 

25

30

(a) if he is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient 
that a person be kept in the custody of any authority, 
in the interest of national security and public order; 
and

(b) subject to such directions as may be given by the 
High Court to ensure a fair trial of such person,   

     
  
anti terrorism  

59

make  order,  that  such  person  be  kept  in  custody  of  any 
authority, in such place, subject to such conditions as may be 
determined by the High Court having regard to such interests.

(2)    Any  order  made  under  subsection  (1)  shall  be 
communicated to the High Court and to the Commissioner 
General  of  Prisons  and  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  such 
Commissioner General, to deliver the custody of such person 
to the authority specified in such Order and the provisions of 
the Prisons Ordinance (Chapter 54) shall cease to apply in 
relation to the custody of such person.

5

10

73.  The proceedings in respect of offences under this Act 
shall be given priority over any other business of the court 
unless in the opinion of the court, special circumstances of 
urgency in such other business prevents.

15

74. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the provisions of 
the Code of Criminal Procedure Act shall, mutatis mutandis, 
apply in respect of a trial under this Act.

75. (1) If at any time before the judgement is given by the 
High Court against a person who has been indicted for having 
committed one or more offences under this Act, where any 
charge in the indictment does not relate to-

20

(a)  causing  death  or  grievous  bodily  injury  to  any 

person;

(b) endangering the security of the State and the people 

25

of Sri Lanka; or

(c) causing serious harm to property,

the Attorney  General  may,  having  due  regard  to  the  facts 
specified  in  subsection  (2)  and  subject  to  one  or  more 
conditions referred to in subsection (3) with the permission of 
the High Court, withdraw the indictment against the accused.

30

Proceedings 
in respect of 
offences under 
this Act to be 
given priority

  Trial 
procedure       

Withdrawal of 
Indictment       

 
5

10

15

60 

anti terrorism

(2) When the Attorney General withdraws the indictment 
under subsection (1), he shall pay due regard to the views 
of  the  victims  of  the  offence  and  the  representations  that 
may be made by the accused person or on his behalf by his 
Attorney-at-Law. 

(3) The Attorney General may impose one or more of the 

following conditions as specified in subsection (1):-

(a)  to  publicly  express  remorse  and  apology  before 
the High Court, using a text issued by the Attorney 
General;

(b) to provide reparation to victims of the offence, as 

specified by the Attorney General;

(c) to voluntarily participate in a specified programme 

of rehabilitation;

(d)  to  publicly  undertake  that  he  refrains  from 
committing an offence under this Act or under any 
other law;

(e) to engage in specified community or social service; 

and

20

(f) to refrain from committing, any indictable offence, 

or, breach of peace.

(4)  If  such  person  fulfils  the  conditions  imposed  under 
subsection (3), during the period stipulated for fulfilling such 
conditions,  the Attorney  General  shall  not  present  a  fresh 
indictment against the accused thereafter on the same charges 
in the original indictment.

(5)  If  the  accused  fails  without  valid  excuse  to  comply 
with  the  said  conditions,  the Attorney  General  may  file  a 
fresh indictment against the accused on the same charges in 
the original indictment and proceed to prosecute the accused 

25

30

 
anti terrorism  

61

after the lapse of the period given for the accused to fulfil 
such conditions.

76.  Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  the 
provisions of this Act, if the trial against a person remanded 
or  detained  under  this Act  has  not  commenced  after  the 
expiration of twelve months, from the date of arrest, the Court 
of Appeal may release such person on bail, upon an application 
in that behalf, made by the suspect or an Attorney- at-Law 
on his behalf: 

Grant of bail 
to persons in 
remand or in 
detention 

Provided  however,  the  High  Court  may  in  exceptional 
circumstances  release  the  suspect  on  bail  subject  to  such 
conditions as the High Court may deem fit: 

Provided  further,  where  the  trial  against  an  accused  in 
respect of whom the indictment has been forwarded and filed 
in the High Court, has not commenced after the expiration 
of  twelve  months  from  the  date  of  such  filing,  the  High 
Court may consider to release such person on bail, upon an 
application in that behalf made by the accused or an Attorney- 
at-Law on his behalf.

PART IX

 aDmiSSibilitY of StatementS

77. (1) A statement made by any person to a Magistrate 
under  this Act,  shall  be  admissible  against  such  person, 
subject to the provisions specified in subsection (2), and to 
the provisions of section 24 of the Evidence Ordinance.

Statements 
made to a 
Magistrate 

(2)  (a) A  person  shall  not  be  legally  bound  to  make  a 
statement or produce an affidavit implicating or incriminating 
himself in the commission of an offence.

(b) Any person who is to be interviewed and his statement 
is to be recorded, shall have the right, if he so wishes, to have 
access  to,  or  communicate  with,  an Attorney-at-Law  and 
obtain legal advice prior to such interview.

5

10

15

20

25

30

 
62 

anti terrorism

(c) A Magistrate seeking to record a statement, shall inform 
the person being interviewed of his rights under this Act prior 
to such interview.

5

(d) If the person whose statement being recorded at the 
interview does not understand the language being spoken, the 
services of an interpreter shall be obtained and the interview 
shall be conducted in a language that could be understood 
by such person.

10

(e) A  translation  of  the  statement  shall  be  transcribed 
together with the corresponding questions, and kept for future 
verifications.

15

20

25

(f) The interview shall wherever possible be audio-visually 

recorded.

78. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other 
written law, a statement made to a Magistrate by a person 
accused of having committed an offence under this Act, shall 
not be admissible in evidence against such person, unless- 

(a)  the  Magistrate  who  recorded  such  statement  had 
immediately prior  to  and  soon  after  recording  the 
statement, cause the person who made the statement 
to be examined by a government forensic medical 
specialist; and 

(b)  the  report  of  the  forensic  medical  specialist  is 
produced  by  the  prosecuting  authority,  during 
the  viore-dire  inquiry,  that  may  be  conducted  for 
verifying the admissibility of the statement.

PART X

miScellaneouS orDerS

Pre-conditions 
to be 
satisfied for 
admissibility 
of a statement 
made to a 
Magistrate 

79.  (1)  Notwithstanding  anything  in  any  other  written 
law, where the President has reasonable grounds to believe 

30

President 
to make 
Proscription 
Orders.

 
anti terrorism  

63

that any organization is engaged in any act amounting to an 
offence under this Act, or is acting in an unlawful manner 
prejudicial to the national security of Sri Lanka or any other 
country, the President may, by Order published in the Gazette, 
(hereinafter referred to as a “Proscription Order”) proscribe 
such organization in terms of the provisions of this Act.

(2) A Proscription Order may be made by the President, 

for giving effect to-

(a) a recommendation made by the Inspector General 

of Police; or

(b) a request made by the Government of any foreign 

country to the Government of Sri Lanka.

5

10

(3) A Proscription Order may include one or more of the 

following prohibitions:-

15

(a)  prohibiting  any  person  being  a  member  of  such 

organization;

(b) prohibiting such organization recruiting members 

to such organization;

(c) prohibiting any person acting in furtherance of the 

20

objectives of such organization;

(d) prohibiting the conducting of meetings, activities 

and programmes by such organization;

(e)  prohibiting  the  use  or  mobilization  of  bank     
accounts  and  other  financial  depositories  of  such 
organization;

25

(f) prohibiting to enter into contracts;

(g) prohibiting the raising of funds and receiving grants 

and bequests;

 
64 

anti terrorism

(h) prohibiting the transferring of funds and assets of 

the organization; 

(i) prohibiting the lobbying and canvassing on behalf 

of such organization; or

(j) prohibiting any person by publication of any material 
in furtherance of the objects of such organization.

(4) Any  prohibition,  restriction,  suspension  or  sanction, 
issued  under  any  other  written  law  in  respect  of  an 
organization in respect of which a Proscription Order has been 
issued under subsection (1), shall continue to be in operation, 
without prejudice to any such Proscription Order issued under 
subsection (1).

(5) Immediately after publication of a Proscription Order 
in the Gazette, it shall be communicated to the organization 
in respect of which such Proscription Order has been issued, 
and be immediately informed to the members and employees 
of such organization together with reasons therefor, by way 
of direct communication, whenever such communication is 
possible. A  public  announcement  of  such  Order  shall  also 
be made.

(6) The President may, on an application made by a person 
or an organization aggrieved by a Proscription Order issued 
under  subsection  (1),  review  or  cancel  such  Order  after 
considering the representations of such person or organization.

5

10

15

20

25

(7) (a) A Proscription Order made under this section may 

be initially issued for a period of one year.

(b) On the lapse of the period of one year, the President 
may,  taking  into  account,  the  contemporary  and  reliable 
information and security needs, extend any such Order for 
further periods not exceeding one year at a time.

30

President 
to make 
Restriction 
Orders

anti terrorism  

65

(8) Any person or organization aggrieved by a Proscription 
Order or any extension thereof, shall be entitled to make an 
application in terms of Article 126 of the Constitution. 

80. (1) Where on a recommendation made by the Inspector 
General  of  Police,  the  President  has  reasonable  grounds 
to  believe,  that  any  person    has  committed,  or  is  making 
preparation,  to  commit  an  offence  under  this Act,  and  the 
conduct of such person cannot be  investigated without him 
being arrested, and if the President is of the opinion that it is 
necessary to do so, the President may, after an application is 
made to the High Court by the Attorney-General and upon 
obtaining the sanction of such Court, make an order in writing 
(hereinafter referred to  as  a  “Restriction Order”)  imposing 
such restrictions, as shall be specified in that order, for a period 
not exceeding one month.

5

10

15

(2) A Restriction Order made under subsection (1) may 

include restrictions on - 

(a) the movement outside the place of residence;

(b) travelling overseas;

20

(c) travelling within Sri Lanka;

(d) travelling outside the normal route between the place 

of residence and place of employment;

(e)  the  communication  or  association,  or  both,  with 
particular persons as shall be specified in the order; or

(f)  engaging  in  certain  specified  activities  that  may 
facilitate the commission of an offence under this 
Act.

(3) Any such Restriction Order may require the suspect to 
report to any police station on a specified date, or at specified 
periodic intervals.

25

30

 
 
 
66 

anti terrorism

(4) A Restriction Order under subsection (1) shall be made, 

only if such Order- 

(a) is necessary for the prevention of the commission 

of an offence under this Act; 

5

(b)  is  necessary  to  conduct  investigations  into  the 

commission of an offence under this Act; 

10

15

20

25

(c)  is  proportionate  to  the  offence  alleged  to  have 
committed  or  likely  to  be  committed  under  this 
Act; and

(d) does not amount to an arbitrary deprivation of liberty 
or restriction on the exercise of fundamental rights, 
in terms of the provisions of the Constitution.

(5)  The  court  shall  cause  any  such  Restriction  Order 
to be served on the person in respect of whom such Order 
was  made,  and  require  the  Inspector  General  of  Police  to 
take necessary steps to enforce any such Order and ensure 
compliance therewith.

(6)  (a) The  Inspector  General  of  Police  shall  cause,  the 
statements of the person in respect of whom the Restriction 
Order was made, to be recorded, within one week of making 
thereof and submit it to the President, enabling the President to 
determine whether the said Order shall be revoked or varied. 

(b) Prior to recording the statement, the relevant person 
shall be informed of his rights under this Act, and be informed 
of the grounds for making the Restriction Order. 

(c) Prior to recording the statement, the relevant person 
shall  be  permitted  if  he  so  requests,  to  have  access  to,  or 
confidential communication with, an Attorney-at-Law.

(d) The  interview  shall  be  conducted  and  the  statement 
shall  be  recorded  in  a  language  understood  by  the  person 

30

 
anti terrorism  

67

being interviewed, with the services of an interpreter obtained 
where necessary:

     Provided however, where the services of an interpreter 
is obtained, the interview shall be recorded with its translation, 
and be transcribed, and preserved, for future verification.             

5

(e) Wherever possible, the interview shall be audio-visually 

recorded.  

10

(7) Any person who willfully acts in contravention of a 
Restriction Order made under this Act commits an offence, 
and  shall  upon  conviction  by  the  High  Court  be  liable  to 
imprisonment which may extend to three years and to a fine 
not exceeding rupees three hundred thousand.

(8) The President shall review a Restriction Order made 
under  this  section  in  every  month  and  extend  the  period 
thereof, if necessary.

15

(9) The aggregate period of any Restriction Order shall 

not exceed six months.

(10) The person in respect of whom a Restriction Order or 
an extension thereof has been made, or an Attorney-at-Law 
on his behalf, shall be entitled to make an application in terms 
of Article 126 of the Constitution.

  81.  (1)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  the  Public 
Security  Ordinance  (Chapter  140),  the  President  may,  by 
Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as a 
“Curfew Order”), declare curfew under this Act, for a period 
specified in such Order, either to the entirety or part of Sri 
Lanka including its territorial waters and air space, for the 
purposes  referred  to  in  subsection  (2)  and  subject  to  the 
provisions of subsection (3).

Curfew 
Orders 

20

25

30

(2)  The  President  may  make  a  Curfew  Order,  for  the 

purposes of -

 
  
 
       
68 

anti terrorism

(a) controlling, detecting or investigating the occurrence 
of  systematic  and  widespread  committing  of 
terrorism and other offences under this Act;

(b) for the protection of national or public security from 
terrorism and other offences under this Act; or

5

(c) to prevent the systematic and widespread committing 

of offences under this Act.              

(3) (a)The maximum period of any Curfew Order shall not 

exceed twenty-four hours at a time.

10

(b)There shall be an interval of a minimum period of three 

hours between two periods of curfew.

(4)  A  Curfew  Order  may  be  made  subject  to  such 
exemptions that may be imposed to provide for humanitarian 
needs.

15

(5) Any such Curfew Order, shall-

(a)  specify  categories  of  persons  who  are  exempted 

from the application of such Order;

 (b) specify any person who may be authorized to issue 

permits-

20

(i)  exempting any person or persons from adhering 

to the Curfew Order; and

(ii)  authorizing  such  person  or  persons  to  travel 
from one place to another, due to the need of 
maintaining  essential  services  and  supplies, 
emergency  requirements  and  humanitarian 
needs, as may be specified in such permit.

25

(6) Any person who needs to be fully or partly exempted 
from a Curfew Order, shall be entitled to make an application 

                        
                    
 
 
anti terrorism  

69

to the authority referred to in subsection (5) in the prescribed 
form.

(7) A  person  who  willfully  violates  a  Curfew  Order 
commits an offence, and upon conviction by a Magistrate be 
liable to a fine not exceeding rupees three hundred thousand.

5

(8)  It  shall  be  lawful  for  any  arresting  officer  to  use 
reasonable force, as may be necessary to ensure compliance 
with  a  Curfew  Order,  where  all  other  means  of  ensuring 
compliance have proved ineffective.

10

15

20

82. (1) For the purposes of this Act, the President may, on 
a recommendation made by the Inspector General of Police 
or the Commander, respectively of, Army, Navy or Air Force 
or the Director General of Coast Guard, from time to time, by 
Order published in the Gazette, stipulate any place of public 
use or any other location to be a prohibited place (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Prohibited Place”). 

Prohibited 
Places

(2)  The  Order  under  subsection  (1)  shall  include 
prohibitions on the entry, and where necessary, may include 
prohibitions  on  taking  photographs,  video  recording  and 
making sketches of the Prohibited Place.

(3) In addition to the publication of the Order in respect of 
a Prohibited Place in the Gazette, sufficient publicity through 
other means shall be given.

25

(4)  Upon  being  declared  a  place  as  a  Prohibited  Place, 
notices shall be placed at entry points to such place where 
possible, indicating that such place has been declared as a 
Prohibited Place.

(5) (a) The period of operation of an Order made under 

subsection (1) shall not exceed for a period of seven days.

30

(b) Where the period of operation of any such Order is 
required to be extended for a period exceeding seven days, 
an  application  in  that  behalf  shall  be  made  to  obtain  the 

 
                      
70 

anti terrorism

prior approval from a Magistrate having jurisdiction in the 
area  within  which  such  Prohibited  Place  is  situated.  Such 
Magistrate shall prior to the issuance of such order satisfy 
himself of the necessity for issuing the same and may make 
an order subject to any conditions.

(6) After  making  an  Order  under  subsection  (1),  the 
officer in charge or any other person having lawful authority 
and control over the Prohibited Place as authorized by the 
President, shall specify the categories of persons who shall 
be authorized to enter and remain in such place, and he shall 
also be entitled to authorize any other person to enter such 
place on conditions he may specify. 

(7) Any person willfully contravenes an Order made under 
subsection (1) by entering or remaining in a prohibited place 
without lawful authority commits an offence, and shall upon 
conviction be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 
three years and to a fine not exceeding rupees three hundred 
thousand or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(8) Any person willfully contravenes an Order made under 
subsection (2) by taking photographs, video recording and 
making sketches of a prohibited place commits an offence and 
shall upon conviction be liable to imprisonment for a term 
not exceeding three years or to a fine, not exceeding rupees 
three hundred thousand.

(9)  For  the  purpose  of  subsection  (1),  “place  of  public 
use” includes any highway and any other premises or place 
to which at the material time the public have access or are 
permitted to have access, whether as of right or otherwise. 

5

10

15

20

25

30

83. (1) Any police officer may seize any movable property 
used for committing or concerned in committing an offence, 
or derived out of committing an offence under this Act.

Seizure, 
confiscation 
and forfeiture 
of property

(2) Any  such  seizure  shall  be  valid  for  a  period  not 
exceeding three days of such seizure unless such seizure is 

anti terrorism  

71

affirmed and extended by a Magistrate on a request made by 
an officer in charge of a police station.

(3) Any seizure of property not so affirmed and extended 
as aforesaid shall cease to have effect after the expiry of the 
said period of three days.

(4) Any seizure of property   affirmed and extended under 
subsection  (2)  shall  cease  to  be  in  force  upon  the  expiry 
of  ninety  days  of  such  affirmation  unless  authorized  by  a 
Magistrate, who may authorize the extension of the seizure 
till the conclusion of the trial, relating to the relevant offence, 
upon a request made by the officer in charge of the police 
station.

(5) Where any person establishes his claim in respect of the 
property so seized, the Magistrate may release such property 
to the person who establishes the claim, on conditions that 
may be imposed, if he is satisfied that-

5

10

15

(a)  such  person  is  the  bona-fide  owner,  who  has  no 
knowledge of the commission of the offence; or

(b) such person had exercised due diligence to prevent 

20

the commission of such offence.

(6) Where any person is convicted for an offence under this 
Act, the Court may make order subject to the determination of 
an appeal against such conviction that any property movable or 
immovable used in the commission of such offence or derived 
out of such offence, be forfeited and confiscated to the State. 

(7) Where any person has been acquitted of any charge 
under this Act, the Court may make order that any property 
used for or derived out of the commission of such offence be 
forfeited and confiscated to the State.

(8)    Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  subsections  (6) 
and (7), any property so forfeited and confiscated to the State 

25

30

 
 
   
72 

anti terrorism

which have been used by any person to commit an offence 
under this Act without the knowledge or consent of the owner 
of such property, shall be discharged from such forfeiture and 
confiscation. 

5

(9) Any  person  aggrieved  by  an  order  made  under  this 

section, may appeal to the Court of Appeal.

(10) The provisions of subsections (5), (6), (7) and (8) shall 
not apply to any instrument, weapon, ammunition or utensil 
used to commit an offence under this Act.

10

15

20

PART XI

SentencinG GuiDelineS 

84.  When  determining  the  term  of  imprisonment  to  be 
imposed  on  a  person  convicted  of  having  committed  an 
offence under this Act, the following factors may be taken into 
account as aggravating factors which warrant the imposing of 
an enhanced term of imprisonment, subject to the provisions 
of this Act: -

Aggravating 
factors

(a) the effect of the commission of the relevant offence 
on  the  territorial  integrity  or  sovereignty  of  Sri 
Lanka, or of any other sovereign country;

(b) the effect of the commission of the relevant offence 

on the security or defence of Sri Lanka;

(c) the number of lives lost due to the commission of 

the offence;

25

(d) whether the commission of the offence has given 

rise to public disquiet;

(e) injuries or harms inflicted on any person in or outside 

Sri Lanka;

anti terrorism  

73

(f)  the  impact  on  the  victims  of  the  offence  and 
aggravated  nature  of  the  consequences  undergone 
by them;

(g) the effect on the security of the general public;

5

(h) the impact on the peaceful co-existence of the people 

of Sri Lanka;

(i) financial and material loss caused to the Government 

of Sri Lanka and to the general public; 

(j)  financial  and  other  resources  required  for  the 
reparation and restoration of the damages caused; 
and

(k) any other factor as may be determined by the court 
to be taken into account as an aggravating factor.  

85.  When  determining  the  term  of  imprisonment  to  be 
imposed  on  a  person  convicted  of  having  committed  an 
offence under this Act, the following factors may be taken 
into  account  as  mitigating  factors  which  warrant  reduced 
term of imprisonment subject to the provisions of this Act:-

Mitigating 
factors 

10

15

(a) publicly denouncing terrorism;

20

(b) expression of remorse;

(c) young age at the time of committing the offence;

(d) old age at the time of sentencing;

(e) time period spent in detention or remand;

(f) coercion or duress under which the offence had been 

25

committed;

(g) voluntarily providing of reparation by the accused 

to the victims of the offence;

 
     
74 

anti terrorism

(h) public denouncement of violence, and other offences 
in respect of which the accused was convicted ;

(i) genuine commitment towards the preservation and 
protection of the territorial integrity and sovereignty 
of Sri Lanka;

(j)  voluntarily  participating  in  and  completing  a 
rehabilitation programme stipulated by the court; or 

(k) any other factor as may be determined by the court 
to be taken into account as a mitigating factor.

PART XII

General

86. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Code 
of Criminal Procedure Act, the provisions of section 306 of 
that Act shall not apply in the case of any person who pleads 
or  is  found  guilty,  by  or  before  any  court  for  any  offence 
under this Act.

Certain 
provisions 
of the Code 
of Criminal 
Procedure 
Act not to 
apply 

87. The provisions of Children’s Ordinance (Chapter 23) 
shall apply to any child who is found guilty and convicted for 
having committed an offence under this Act.

Children’s 
Ordinance to 
apply 

5

10

15

20

88. (1) An Order made or direction given under this Act 
may be questioned in proceedings as provided for under this 
Act. 

Protection of 
officers & c.

25

(2)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  subsection  (1),  no  suit, 
prosecution  or  other  proceeding,  civil  or  criminal  shall  lie 
against  any  officer  or  person  for  any  act  or  thing  in  good 
faith done or purported to be done in pursuance or suppose 
pursuance of any Order made, or direction given under this 
Act.

 
anti terrorism  

75

89. Where  an  offence  under  this Act  is  committed  by  a 

body of persons, if that body of persons is-

Offences by 
bodies of 
persons 

(a)  a  body  corporate,  every  director  and  principal 

executive officer of that body corporate;

5

(b) a firm, every partner of that firm; or

(c)  a  body  unincorporated  other  than  a  firm,  every 
officer of that body responsible for its management 
and control, 

shall be deemed to be guilty of such offence:

10

Provided  that,  no  such  person  shall  be  deemed  to 
be guilty of such offence, if he proves that such offence has 
committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due 
diligence to prevent the commission of such offence.

15

  90.  (1)  The  President  may  make  regulations,  for  the 
purpose  of  carrying  out  or  giving  effect  to  the  purposes, 
principles and provisions of this Act. 

Regulations 

(2)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  President  shall  be 
published  in  the  Gazette  and  shall  come  into  operation  on 
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be 
specified in the regulation. 

20

(3) Every regulation made by the President shall within 
thirty days of its publication in the Gazette be brought before 
Parliament for its approval.

25

(4)  Any regulation not so approved shall be deemed to 
be rescinded from the date of such disapproval but without 
prejudice to anything duly done thereunder. 

(5) Notification of the date on which a regulation is deemed 

to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

 
 
    
76 

anti terrorism

  91.  (1)  The  President  may,  from  time  to  time,  issue 
directions subject to the provisions of this Act, which shall 
apply to police officers, members of armed forces and coast 
guard officers pertaining to the manner in which the provisions 
of this Act shall be enforced. 

5

Directions       

(2) The  directions  issued  under  subsection  (1),  shall  be 
solely for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this 
Act, in an efficacious manner and, be in compliance with the 
human rights norms and standards recognized by law.

10

(3) Every such direction shall be published in the Gazette.

92. (1) The President may make regulations to implement 
rehabilitation programmes for the persons in respect of whom 
the Attorney  General  has  recommended  suspension  and 
deferment of criminal proceedings under section 70, or the 
Attorney General has withdrawn indictments under section 76.

15

Rehabilitation 
programmes

(2) Regulations under subsection (1) shall include-

(a)  objectives  to  be  achieved  by  the  conduct  of  the 

programme;

(b) nature of rehabilitation activities; 

20

(c) nature of the training to be provided;

(d)  the  authority  or  authorities  who  conduct  the 

rehabilitation or training;

(e) the location of the programme; 

(f) the duration of the programme; and

25

(g) any other matter relating to the implementation of 
any rehabilitation programme under this section. 

anti terrorism  

77
93.  The  provisions  of  this  Act  shall  have  effect 
notwithstanding anything contained in any other written law 
and  in  the  event  of  any  conflict  or  inconsistency  between 
the  provisions  of  this Act  and  such  other  written  law,  the 
provisions of this Act shall prevail.

This Act to 
prevail over 
other written 
law 

94.  Nothing  contained  in  this Act  shall  be  read  and 
construed as preventing any person aggrieved by any decision, 
determination,  order  or  direction,  made  by  any  relevant 
authority under this Act, seeking relief through judicial review, 
in terms of the provisions of the Constitution.

Judicial 
review 

5

10

PART XIII

repealS anD tranSitional proViSionS

95. The Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions) 

Act, No.48 of 1979 is hereby repealed.

15

96.  Notwithstanding  the  repeal  of  the  Prevention  of 
Terrorism  (Temporary  Provisions)  Act,  No.48  of  1979 
(hereinafter referred to as the “repealed Act”) -

Repeal of 
Act, No.48 of 
1979 

Transitional 
provisions       

20

25

30

(a)  any  investigation,  trial,  appeal  or  application 
conducted,  held,  preferred  or  made  under  the 
repealed Act  and  pending  decision,  in  any  court 
or  with  other  authority,  on  the  day  immediately 
preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this Act 
shall be disposed of, continued, held or entertained, 
as nearly as may be practicable under the provisions 
of  the  repealed  Act  including  the  provisions 
pertaining to procedure and evidence;

(b)  any  person  suspected  of  having  committed  or 
concerned  in  committing  an  offence  under  the 
repealed Act prior to the date of commencement of 
this Act, in respect of whom the proceedings have 
not been instituted as at the date of commencement 
of  this Act,  shall  be  prosecuted  against,  under 

 
    
      
      
78 

anti terrorism

the  provisions  of  the  repealed Act  and  the  legal 
proceedings  into  any  such  offence  shall  be  held 
by  the  relevant  authority,  as  nearly  as  may  be 
practicable, under the provisions of this Act:

  Provided however, prior to filing the indictment 
for any such offence, the Attorney General shall 
consider  the  possibility  to  suspend  or  defer 
criminal proceedings under section 70 of this Act;

(c)  all  sentences  passed  and  any  decree  or  order 
entered or made in any criminal proceeding under 
the  repealed Act,  immediately  prior  to  the  date 
of  commencement  of  this Act,  shall  be  deemed, 
respectively to have been passed, entered or made 
under the corresponding provisions of this Act and 
be enforced and given effect accordingly; and

(d) all regulations and orders made under the provisions 
of the repealed Act, prior to the date of commencement 
of this Act, including but not limited to regulations 
proscribing  any  organization  and  including  the 
regulations published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 
1721/2 of August 29, 2011, shall be deemed, to have 
been  made  under  the  corresponding  provisions  of 
this Act and be enforced and given effect accordingly.

 97. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

Interpretation 

“aircraft” includes a helicopter;

“armed forces” means Sri Lanka Army established 
under the Army Act (Chapter 357), Sri Lanka 
Navy established under the Navy Act (Chapter 
358) and Sri Lanka Air Force established under 
the Air Force Act (Chapter 359);

“coast guard officers” shall have the same meaning 
assigned to such expression under the Department 
of Coast Guard Act, No.41 of 2009;

5

10

15

20

25

30

 
      
anti terrorism  

79

 “Code of Criminal Procedure Act” means the Code 

of Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979;

“Commissioner  General  of  Land”  means  the 
Commissioner  General  appointed  under 
section 3 of the Land Development Ordinance 
(Chapter 464);

“Commissioner  General  of  Motor  Traffic”  means 
the  Commissioner  General  appointed  under 
section 204 of the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 
203);

  “Commissioner  General  for  the  Registration  of 
Persons”  means  the  Commissioner  General 
appointed under section 3 of the Registration 
of Persons Act, No.32 of 1968;

“confidential information” means- 

(a) any information, the dissemination of which is 
likely to have an adverse impact on the security 
and defence of Sri Lanka;

(b) any information not in the public domain, the 
dissemination  of  which  is  likely  to  have  an 
adverse  effect  on  national  security  or  public 
security, relating to-

(i)  the persons of the police, armed forces 

or Department of Coast Guard;

(ii)  the functions, movements or whereabouts 

of a specified person;

  (iii)  a prohibited place or an approved place 

of detention;

  (iv)  the  conduct  of  investigations  into 
offences  under  this  Act,  findings  of  

5

10

15

20

25

30

 
 
 
80 

anti terrorism

such  investigations,  persons  arrested 
and  detained  and  identity  of  officers 
conducting investigations;

(c)  any  information  relating  to  the  police  or  the 
armed  forces,  on  the  conduct  of  any  official 
activity,  including  any  law  enforcement  or 
military  measure  which  is  intended  to  be 
carried out or is being carried out, or has been 
carried out;

(d) any secret code, word, password or encryption 
detail relating to national security and defence;

“Controller General of Immigration and Emigration” 
means the Controller General appointed under 
section 4 of the Immigrants and Emigrants Act 
(Chapter 351);   

“Controller General of Imports and Exports” means 
the Controller General appointed under section 
2 of the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 
No.1 of 1969;

“curfew”  means  the      prohibition  of  the  presence, 
movement in or through a place of public use 
places  including  any  road,  railway,  tunnel, 
territorial sea, stream, park, market, seashore 
and recreation area;

    “designated  non-finance  business”  has  the  same   
meaning  assigned  to  that  expression  in  the 
Financial  Transaction  Reporting Act,  No.6 
of 2006; 

 “Director General of Customs” means the Director 
General  appointed  under  section  2  of  the 
Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235);

5

10

15

20

25

30

anti terrorism  

81

“Director of the Financial Intelligence Unit” means 
the  Head  of  the  Financial  Intelligence  Unit 
designated  under  the  Financial  Transaction 
Reporting Act, No.6 of 2006;

“Director  General  of  the  National  Intellectual 
Property  Office  of  Sri  Lanka”  means  the 
Director General appointed under section 2 of 
the Intellectual Property Act, No.36 of 2003;

“Director  General  of  the  Securities  and  Exchange 
Commission of Sri Lanka” means the Director 
General  appointed  under  section  19  of  the 
Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri 
Lanka Act, No.19 of 2021;

“Director  General  of  Telecommunications”  means 
the Director General appointed under section 
22B of  the Sri Lanka Telecommunication Act, 
No.25 of  1991;

  “Evidence  Ordinance”  means  the  Evidence 

Ordinance (Chapter 14);  

“gratification” shall have the same meaning assigned 
to such expression in the Anti-Corruption Act, 
No.9 of 2023;

“Head  of  the  Department  of  Foreign  Exchange” 
means the Head of the Department of Foreign 
Exchange within the meaning of the Foreign 
Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;

  “Human  Rights  Commission  of  Sri  Lanka” 
means the Human Rights Commission of Sri 
Lanka  established  under  the  Human  Rights 
Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No.21 of 1996;

“non-banking  financial  institution”  shall  have  the 
same  meaning  assigned  to  such  expression 

5

10

15

20

25

30

 
 
             
82 

anti terrorism

under  the  Financial  Transaction  Reporting 
Act, No. 6 of 2006;  

“Penal Code” means the Penal Code (Chapter 19);

“person” means an individual, group of individuals, 
an  association,  organization  or  body  of 
persons;

“Police  Ordinance”  means  the  Police  Ordinance 

(Chapter 53);

“proscribed  terrorist  organization”  includes  any 
organization  proscribed  under  a  regulation 
made  in  terms  of  the  United  Nations Act, 
No.45 of 1968; 

“Registrar  of  Companies”  means  the  Registrar  of 
Companies  appointed  under  section  471  of 
the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007;

“territory of the Republic of Sri Lanka” shall have 
the same meaning assigned to that expression 
under the Constitution; 

“unmanned  aerial  vehicle”  means  a  mechanized 
or  automated  flying  object,  which  does  not 
contain  an  ability  to  navigate  such  object 
by  a  human  being  from  within  the  object, 
and  which  may  or  may  not  be  navigated  or 
controlled remotely;  

“victim”  in  relation  to  an  offence  means  a  person 
including a child victim who has suffered any 
injury, harm, impairment or disability whether 
physical  or  mental,  emotional,  economic  or 
other  loss,  as  a  result  of  an  act  or  omission 
which constitutes an alleged –

5

10

15

20

25

30

anti terrorism  

83

(a) offence under this Act; or

(b) offence under any other written law which has 
been committed in the course of committing an 
offence under this Act, 

    and includes a person who suffers harm as a result of 
intervening to assist such a person or to prevent the 
commission of an offence, and the parent or guardian 
of a child victim of an offence and any member of 
the family and next of kin of such person, dependents 
and  any  other  person  of  significant  importance  to 
that person;

“witness” means any person who-

(a)  has  provided  information  or  lodged  a  complaint 
with any law enforcement officer and based upon 
such information or complaint, an investigation or 
inquiry could be commenced or has commenced or 
is likely to commence, in connection with the alleged 
commission of an offence under this Act;

(b)  in  the  course  of  an  investigation  or  inquiry 
conducted  by  a  law  enforcement  officer,  into  the 
alleged commission of an offence under this Act has 
provided information or made a statement containing 
an account of matters in respect of which such person 
had been questioned;

(c) has provided an affidavit or submitted a statement 
in support of a complaint made or any legal action 
instituted by a victim of an offence under this Act;

(d) has provided information or any communication to 

a Commission;

(e) has reasonable grounds to believe that he shall be 
summoned by a court or a Commission to make a 

5

10

15

20

25

30

 
 
84 

anti terrorism

statement or testify in any judicial or quasi-judicial 
proceedings against a person, based on information 
provided or a statement made to a law enforcement 
officer or a Commission by such person;

 (f) has received summons from a court or a Commission 
to make a statement, testify or produce any document, 
report  or  object  in  any  judicial  or  quasi-judicial 
proceeding before such court or Commission; or

(g)  being  a  public  officer,  has  investigated  into  the 
alleged commission of an offence under this Act,

and includes a victim of an offence, a child witness, the parent 
or guardian of a child witness, a family member or dependent 
of such witness or any other person of significant importance 
to such person, an expert witness and a person who has been 
summoned to testify before a court or a Commission on behalf 
of a person suspected or accused of the alleged commission 
of an offence under this Act.

(2) Any word or expression used in this Act and defined in 
the Penal Code or the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, but 
not defined in this Act shall have the same meaning assigned 
to such word or expression by the Penal Code or the Code of 
Criminal Procedure Act, respectively.

98. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala 

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

5

10

15

20

Sinhala text 
to prevail 
in case of 
inconsistency 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
anti terrorism  

85

[section 26(1)]

FIRST SCHEDULE       

Notification of the arrest and custody

1.  Name of the person arrested:-

2.  Date, time and place of arrest:-

3.  Reasons for the arrest:-

4.  Location  of  the  proposed  custody  or  detention  of  the 

person arrested:-

5.  Name,  identification  number  and  rank  of  the  arresting 

officer:-

6.  Any other information as may be necessary for the next 
of kin of person arrested, to have reasonable access to 
him:-

7.  Identity of the person to whom the notification is being 

issued:-

8.  Date and place of issue of the notification:-

9.  Name, designation and signature of the officer issuing the 

notification:-   

[section 26(4)]

SECOND SCHEDULE  

Notification of the arrest to the Human Rights 

commission of Sri lanka

1.  Name of the person arrested:-

2.  Date, time and place of arrest:-

 
                                                                      
                             
       
                                       
86 

anti terrorism

3.  Reasons for the arrest:-

4.  Location of the place at which the suspect is being held 

in detention:-

5.  Name,  identification  number  and  rank  of  the  arresting 

officer:-

6.  Name and designation of the officer in charge of the place 

of detention and his contact details:-   

7.  Any other information as may be necessary to enable the 
Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka to have prompt 
access to the detainee:-

[section 26(4)]

THIRD SCHEDULE    

Notification of the arrest to the Inspector General of 

police

1.  Name of the person arrested:-

2.  Date, time and place of arrest:-

3.  Reasons for the arrest:-

4.  Location of the place at which the suspect is being held 

in detention:-

5.  Name,  identification  number  and  rank  of  the  arresting 

officer:-

6.  Name and designation of the officer in charge of the place 

of detention and his contact details:-   

                                      
anti terrorism  

87

[section 31(1)(b)]

FOURTH SCHEDULE        

Detention order

1.  Number of the Detention Order:-

2.  Name and designation of the officer issuing the Detention 

Order:-

3.  Date and place of issuing the Detention Order:-

4.  Identity  of  the  officer  who  requested  the  issue  of  the 
Detention Order and the date of the request and where 
applicable the reference number:-

5.  Name  of  the  person  (suspect)  in  respect  of  whom  the 

detention is being authorized:-

6.  The place of authorized detention:-

7.  The period of detention:-

8.  The purpose for which detention of the suspect has been 

authorized:-

9.  Conditions of detention:-

printed at the department of government printing

 
                         
