THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of September 08, 2023

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 14.09.2023)

SUSARANA  LANKA  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Susarana Lanka Foundation

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Asanka Navarathna, M. P.
for Kurunegala District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 30.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  SUSARANA  LANKA FOUNDATION

WHEREAS  an  Organization  called  and  known  as  the
“Susarana  Lanka  Foundation”  has  heretofore  been
established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying
out its objects and transacting all matters connected with the
said  Organization  according  to  the  rules  agreed  to  by  its
members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Organization  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to
grant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

5

10

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the    Susarana  Lanka

Short  title

15

Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.   of 2023.

Incorporation
of  the
Susarana
Lanka
Foundation

2.

(1) From  and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“Foundation”) and shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the  body  corporate  hereby  constituted  shall  have  with
perpetual  succession,  under  the  name  and  style  of  the
“Susarana Lanka Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“body corporate”) and by that name may sue and be sued,
with full power and authority to have, and use a common seal
and to alter the same at its pleasure.

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Service Organization within the meaning and for the
purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Services  Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions  of  that  Act  shall  apply  to  and  in  relation  to  the
management of the affairs of the body corporate.

20

25

30

General
objects  of  the
body
corporate

2

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

3. The general objects for which the body corporate is

constituted are hereby declared to be–

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

to  implement  an  educational  program  which  is
necessary for personality development that includes
complete personality growth, knowledge, skills and
attitudes and promotion of humanitarian ideas, good
values and morals in the society;

to provide the necessary assistance and support to
low-income school students throughout the island
to carry out their educational activities effectively;

to conduct awareness workshops by experts in the
relevant fields and conduct appropriate educational
seminars,  workshops,  mass  educational  programs
and  lectures  for  children  and  monks  in  education
throughout  the  island,  in  order  to  develop  the
knowledge  of  Sinhala,  Mathematics,  English,
Science,  Sanskrit  and  Pali  and  other  languages,
religious  education  and  computer  and  technical
knowledge of school students and monks studying
in Pirivenas;

to  establish  information  technology  centers  at  the
district  level  to  improve  the  science  education  of
school  students  and  to  establish  and  maintain
libraries  at  an  optimal  level  for  the  use  of  school
students  and  monks  studying  in  Pirivenas  and
contributing 
issue  books,  magazines,
commemorative issues and periodicals, etc.;

to 

(e)

to support the school children and youth community
in developing their educational, religious, cultural,
artistic  and  sports  facilities  irrespective  of  race,
religion,  caste,  make  mecessary  arrangements  for

5

10

15

20

25

30

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

3

the protection and maintenance of their disciplinary
and  cultural  values,  implementation  of  suitable
leadership training programs for them;

5

10

(f)

to  provide  necessary  facilities  and  knowledge  to
create  scientific  and  technical  inventions  among
the school children and to create new creations in
the fields of literature, performing arts, cinema etc.,
and  also  conduct  competitions  and  exhibitions,
printing books, commemorative issues, magazines
in that regard;

(g)

to provide programs, equipment and other facilities
necessary in order to provide school students with
theoretical  and  practical  understanding  of  mass
media and the use of new media;

15

(h)

to conduct programs, competitions, etc. and to setup
model  ecosystems  and  model  farm  to  expand
theoretical and practical knowledge among school
students on sustainable agriculture and enviroment
conservation;

20

(i)

to  conduct  awareness  programs  to  create  the
awareness  on  children’s  and  adults’  rights  in  the
school children and in the entire society and make
necessary  arrangements  to  promote  the  children’s
and adults ’ rights;

25

(j)

to  establish  and  supply  equipment  and  maintain
early  childhood  development  centers  at  the  local
level  to  develop  early  childhood  and  primary
education of the children from low-income families;

30

(k)

to  provide  the  necessary  facilities  to  promote  the
health  of  disabled  and  mentally  retarded  children

4

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

throughout the island, to maintain day care centers
and hostels for them, to provide libraries and other
infrastructure  for  the  mental  health  of  those
residents;

to provide financial support to the low-income and
poor  needy  patients  living  all  over  the  island  to
purchase prescribed medicines, provide refrigerating
facilities for the proper storage of the medicines to
be  given  to  them  on  a  daily  basis  and  arrange  a
program at the regional level to provide nutritious
meals prepared in a safe manner to such patients on
free of charge basis and order to arrange financial
and  other  sources  for  the  above  activities  act  in
coorperation  with  local  and  foreign  people  and
organizations working for the welfare of the  needy
patients;

5

(l)

10

15

(m)

to act with local and foreign organizations that have
similar  objectives  to  the  above  objectives  of  the
body  corporation;

20

(n)

to grant scholarships, financial or other assistance
to volunteers and other persons who are engaged in
activities  necessary  for  the  achievement  of  the
objectives of the body corporate;

(o)

to  conduct  and  sponsor  conferences,  seminars,
workshops, mass educational programs and lectures
in Sri Lanka or abroad to promote and achieve the
objectives of he body corporate and to print, publish
and  distribution  of  books,  periodicals,  leaflets,
newspapers and magazines which the body corporate
deems appropriate for that purpose; and

25

30

Body
corporate  to
ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of
Ministry  or
Department
of  the
Government
or  any
Provincial
Council

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the  body
corporate

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

5

(p)

to do such other acts, deeds and things as may be
deemed  appropriate  and  necessary,  incidental  or
conducive to the accomplishment of all or any of
the objects of the body corporate.

5

10

4. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried out
in accordance with written law and in such manner so as not
to create any conflict between the work of the Corporation
and  any  work  being  carried  out  simultaneously  by  any
Ministry or Department of the Government or any Provincial
Council or any Local Authority.

15

20

25

5.

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act,and the rules
made under section 7, the management and administration
of the affairs of the body corporate shall be  carried out by a
Board of Management (hereinafter referred to as “Executive
Board”) consisting of such number of office bearers as may
be specified by the  rules made under section 7.

(2)(a)  The  members  of  the  Executive  Board  of  the
Foundation  holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act shall, Subject to the
rules made under paragraph (b), function as an Interim  Board
of  the  body  corporate  until  the  first  Executive  Board  is
appointed or elected in the manner provided for by rules made
under section 7.

(b) Suject to the provisions of section 7, the Interim Board
of the body corporate shall have the power to make rules for
the  interim  administration  of  the  body  corporate  and  for
election or appointment of the members of the first Executive
Board  of  the  body  corporate,  not  inconsistent  with  the
provisions of this Act or any other written law.

6

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

(c) Any decision of the Interim Board shall be taken by

the majority of its members present at such meeting.

(d) The First Executive Board of the body corporate shall
be  appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

5

(3)(a)    Every  office  bearer  of  the  Executive  Board
including  the  patrons  and  advisors,  shall  be  appointed  or
elected for a  period of three years and any such office bearer,
patron  or  advisor  shall  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  or
re-election after lapse of the said period of three years.

(b)  Reverend  Galahitiyagoda  Sumanarathana  Thero,
founder of Susarana Lanka Foundation shall be the Chairman
of the Executive Board of the body corporate.

(c) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Executive Board shall, having regard to the rules
of the body corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such
vacancy.

10

15

20

(d) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (c)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  any
other written law, the body corporate shall have the power
to  do,  perform  and  execute  the  following  acts  for  the
achievement of the objects of the body corporate–

Powers  of  the
body
corporate

(a)

to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwise
obtain  lands  or  buildings  which  may  be  required
for the purposes of the body corporate and to deal
with or dispose of the same as may be determined
by the Executive Board with a view to promoting
the objects of the body corporate;

25

30

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

7

5

10

15

(b)

to  enter  into  and  perform  or  carry  out,  whether
directly of through any officer or agent authorized
in  that  behalf  by  the  body  corporate,  all  such
contracts  or  agreements  as  may  be  necessary  for
attainment  of  the  objects  or  the  exercise  of  the
powers of the body corporate;

(c)

to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind:

Provided that, the Executive Board shall obtain
the  prior  written  approval  of  the  Department  of
External Resources in respect of all foreign grants,
gifts or donations made to the body corporate;

(d)

to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts
in any bank in Sri Lanka approved by the Executive
Board;

20

(e)

to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for  the  purposes  of  the  body  corporate,  in  such
manner as the Executive Board may determine;

25

(f)

to  undertake,  accept,  execute,  perform  and
administer any lawful trust having objects similar
to the objects of the body corporate or any real or
personal  property  with  a  view  to  promoting  the
objects of the body corporate;

(g)

to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the body corporate and

8

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the body corporate;

to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a  view  to  promoting  the  objectives  of  the  body
corporate;

to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions  having  similar  objects  to  that  of  the
body corporate; and

5

(h)

(i)

10

(j)

to train officers and servants in Sri Lanka or abroad
for the purposes of the body corporate.

15

20

25

7. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the body corporate and by
a majority  of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and  voting,  to  make  rules,  not  inconsistent  with  the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—

Rules  of  the
body
corporate

(a)

classification  of  membership,  detemine  the  fees
payable  by  the  members,  admission  of  members
and withdrwal, expulsion or resignation of members
as follows:-

Scholars, professionals, youth or any other person
can apply for membership of the Foundation if they
are  willing  to  act  in  accordance  with  the
Foundation's  objectives,  code  of  conduct  and  the
constitiution.  All  such  applications  are  subject  to
the  approval  of  the  Chairman  and  the  Executive
Board.  The  basic  admission  fee  for  general
membership  of  the  Foundation  is  Rs.  1000/-  and

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

9

the  fee  for  lifetime  membership  is    Rs.  5000/-.
Membership  fees  are  payable  at  the  time  of
application for membership.

Classification of Membership:

(i) General  Membership  :  This  includes
members who pay annual membership fees;

(ii) Lifetime  Membership  :  This  includes
members who get membership by paying a
certain membership fee as determined by
the body corporate;

(iii) Honorary Membership : This includes the
membership awarded by the Chairman and
/ or Executive Board of the body corporate
to  the  members  those  who  are  done
and excellent and outstanding services in
the society so far, or who are deemed to be
able  to  do  such  service  in  the  future,  or
those who have performed in a specific field
or several in accordance wiht the objectives
of the Foundation;

(iv) Associate Membership : This includes the
members those who are called for a specific
training  under  the  body  corporate  or
commit themselves to a specific service of
the Foundation during a specific period of
time. This membership is offered upon the
approval of the Chairman and / or Executive
Board and the members are exempted from
the membership fees;

5

10

15

20

25

10

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

5

10

(v) Youth  Membership  :  This  membership
offered to young men and women upon the
approval of the Chairman and / or Executive
Board is also exempted from membership
fees;

(b)

election  of  the  following  office  bearers  of  the
Executive Board, vacation of or removal from office
of office bearers and the powers, duties and functions
of the office bearers:–

(i) Honourable Chairman / Executive Director;
(ii) Honourable Vice Chairman / Director;
(iii) Honourable Secretary / Director;
(iv) Honourable Deputy Secretary / Director;
(v) Honourable Treasurer / Director;

15

(c)

the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties of various officers, agents and
servants of the body corporate;

20

25

(d)

the  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  summoning
and holding of meetings of the body corporate or
of the  Executive Board, or notices and agenda of
such  meetings,  the  quorum  and  the  conduct  of
business thereat;

(e)

the  qualifications  and  disqualifications  to  be  a
member  of  the  Executive  Board  and  the  body
corporate;

(f)

the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate;

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

11

(g)

the procedure governing the manner of liaising and
coordinating  with  other  local  and  foreign
institutions  having  objects  similar  to  that  of  the
body corporate; and

5

(h) generally the management of the affairs of the body
corporate  and  the  accomplishment  of  its’  objects
and dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

10

(3) The rules made under subsection (1)  shall be published
in  the  Gazette  within  three  months  upon  making  of  such
rules  and  shall  come  into  effect  on  the  date  of  such
publicaion.

15

(4) The members of the body corporate shall at all times

be subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8. The  Executive  Board  shall  maintain  a  register  of
members in which name, address and other essential details
of the members be inscribed.

Register  of
members

Fund  of  the
body
corporate

20

9.

(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2)  All  moneys  received  by  way  of  gifts,  bequests,
donations,  subscriptions,  contributions,  fees  or  grants  for
and on account of the body corporate shall, subject to the
provisions of section 6(c), be deposited in one or more banks
approved by the Executive Board to the credit of the body
corporate.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums of
money as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by
the  body  corporate  in  the  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

25

30

12

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

10.

(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
auditing

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be
kept  of  its  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities
and all other transactions of the body corporate.

5

10

15

20

25

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  the  Auditor-General  or  a  qualified  auditor
appointed  by  Auditor-General  in  terms  of  provisions  of
Article  154  of  the  Constitution  and  be  certified  by  the
Auditor - General or such qualified auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section, “qualified auditor”

means—

(a)

(b)

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of  Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  of  any
other  institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such institute; or

a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of  which,  being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered Accountants of  Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute.

11.

(1) The Executive Board shall prepare a report of
the activities of the body corporate for each financial year
and submit such report together with the audited statement
of accounts and a list of all assets and liabilitites of the body
corporate  certified  by  the  Auditor-  General  or  a  qualified
auditor referred to in section 10, to the Ministry of the Minister

Annual
Report

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

13

assigned the subject of Education under Article 44 or 45 of
the  Constitution  and  to  the  Registrar  of  Voluntary  Social
Services Organizations appointed under the Voluntary Social
Services Organizations (Registration and Supervision) Act,
No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of the
year succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreign
and local moneys received by the body corporate, the details
of  all  contracts  and  agreements  entered  into  by  the  dody
corporate and the rules of the body corporate mede under
section 7 during the financial year  shall  be  attached  to  the
report  referred  to  in subsection (1).

12. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  body  corporate  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to  and  subscriptions  and
contributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall be
paid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Foundation

13. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the body corporate shall be able and capable in
law, to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant,  gift,  testamentary  disposition  or  otherwise,  and  all
such  property  shall  be  held  by  the  body  corporate  for  the
purposes  of  this  Act  and  subject  to  the  rules  of  the  body
corporate made under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

Body
corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

14. The    moneys  and  property  of  the  body  corporate
however  derived  shall  be  applied  solely  towards  the
promotion  of  the  objects  of  the  body  corporate  and  no
portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or  transferred  directly  or
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwise
howsoever to the members of the body corporate.

Application
of  moneys
and  property

5

10

15

20

25

30

14

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

15.

(1)  The  Seal  of  the    body  corporate  shall  not  be
affixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence
of the Secretary and one other office bearer of the Executive
Board or two office bearers of the Executive Board, whom
may be decided by the Executive Board and who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any person
as a witness.

5

Seal  of  the
body
corporate

10

(2) The Seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody
of the Secretary or an office bearer of the Executive Board as
may be decided by such Executive Board.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

16.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  body  corporate
there  remains  after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be  distributed  among  the  members  of  the  body  corporate,
but  shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  any  other  appropriate
Buddhist institution having objects similar to those of the
body corporate and which is by the rules thereof,  prohibited
from distributing any income or property among its members.

(2) For the purposes of this subsection (1) the appropriate
Buddhist institution shall be determined by the members of
the  body  corporate  with  the  approval  of  the  Registrar  of
Voluntary  Social  Services  Organzations  appointed  under
the  Voluntary  Social  Services  Organzations  (Registration
and Supervision) Act, No. 31 1980 immediately before the
dissolution at a general meeting by the majority of votes of
the members present.

17. No person shall be liable in any suit or other legal
proceeding  for  any  act  done,  or  purporting  to  be  done,  in
good faith in pursuance of the powers conferred by or under
this Act, or for the purpose of carrying out the porvisions of
this Act.

Indeminity
for  acts  done
in  good  faith

15

20

25

30

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

15

18. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.

5

19.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

16

Susarana  Lanka  Foundation  (Incorporation)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

