THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of June 29, 2024

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 01.07.2024)

MAHAWILACHCHIYA  EDUCATION  CENTRE
FOR CHILDREN (INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Mahawilachchiya Education Centre for Children

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Samanpriya Herath, M.P.
for Kurunegala District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Mahawilachchiya  Education  Centre  for  Children
(Incorporation)

1

  AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  MAHAWILACHCHIYA EDUCATION
CENTRE FOR CHILDREN

WHEREAS a centre for Education called and known as
the  “Mahawilachchiya  Education  Centre  for  Children”
has  been  established  in  Sri  Lanka  for  the  purpose  of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all matters
connected with the said Centre according to the   rules agreed
to by its members:

Preamble

AND WHEREAS the said Centre which has heretofore
successfully carried out and promoted the several objectives
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated, and it will be to that advantage of the public
if the  said application is granted :

BE  it  therefore,  enacted  by  the  Parliament  of  the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

5

10

1. This Act may be cited as  Mahawilachchiya Education

Short  title

15

Centre for Children (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2024.

Incorporation
of  the
Mahawilachciya
Education
Centre  for
Children

2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Mahawilachchiya  Education  Centre  for  Children”
(hereinafter referred to as the “Centre”)   shall hereafter be
admitted  as  members  of  the  body  corporate  hereby
constituted  which  shall  have  perpetual  succession  under
the  name  and  style  of  the  “Mahawilachchiya  Education
Centre  for  Children”  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“body corporate”) and by that name may sue and be sued,
with  full  power  and  authority to have, and use a common
seal and alter the same at its pleasure.

20

25

2 Mahawilachchiya  Education  Centre  for  Children

(Incorporation)

(2)  The  body  corporate  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a

Voluntary Social Services Organization within the meaning

and  for  the  purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Services

Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of

5

1980 and the provisions of that Act shall apply to it and to

the management of the affairs of the body corporate.

      3. (1) Subject to the provisions of any written law, the

general objects for which the body corporate is constituted

are to :

General
objects  of  the
body
corporate

10

(a) Conduct  educational  and  skills  development

programmes to better equip youth to meet the needs

of job opportunities of the future and acheive their

goals ;

(b) Establish  a  traning  Centre  for  Information

15

Technology (IT) - related services ;

(c) Provide  and/or  arrange  Information  Technology

(IT) - related services for the youth in rural areas ;

(d) Conduct all such programmes as needed from time

to time to enchance skills and learning ;

20

(2) In the implementation of the objectives specified

in  subsection  (1)  body  corporate  shall  ensure  that  such

implementation will be carried out without any distinction

based  on  race,  religion,  language,  caste,  gender,  political
opinion, place of birth or such other ground.

Body
Corporate  to
ensure  no
conflict  with
the  work  of
Ministry  or
Department
of  the
Government
or  Provincial
Council  and
Management
of  affairs  of
the  body
corporate

The
management
of  the  affairs
of  the  body
corporate

Mahawilachchiya  Education  Centre  for  Children
(Incorporation)

3

4. The objectives of the body corporate shall be carried
out subject to/with the necessary approvals under applicable/
the relevant written laws and in such manner as to avoid any
conflict between the work of the body corporate and of any
work  being  carried  out  simultaneously  by  any  Ministry,
Department of the Government or of any Provincial Council.

5

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Rules
made  in  Section  7  the  management  and  administration  of
the  body  corporate  shall  be  carried  out  by  a  “Board  of
Directors” (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting
of such office bearers as may be specified by the rules under
Section 7.

(2)

(a) The members of the Board of Directors of the
Centre holding office on the day immediately
preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this
Act  shall,  subject  to  the  rules  made  under
paragraph (b), function as an Interim Board of
the  body  corporate  until  the  first  Board  is
appointed  or  elected  within  the  period
specified  in  paragraph  (d)  in  the  manner
provided for in the rules under Section 7;

(b) Subject  to  the  provisions  of  Section  7,  the
Interim Board of the body corporate shall have
the  power  to  make  rules  for  the  interim
administration  of  the  body  corporate  not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or
any other written law ;

10

15

20

25

4 Mahawilachchiya  Education  Centre  for  Children

(Incorporation)

(c) Any  decision  of  the  Interim  Board  shall  be
taken by the majority of its members present at
any meeting ;

(d) The first Board of the body corporate shall be
appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the
date of commencement of this Act ;

(3)

(a) Every office bearer of the Board including the
patrons  and  advisers,  shall  be  appointed  or
elected for a period of three years and any such
office bearer, patron or advisor shall be eligible
for re-appointment or re-election after the lapse
of the said period of three years for a further
period of three years ;

(b) In the event of a vacancy occuring due to death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office
of  an  office  bearer,  the  Board  shall,  having
regard to the rules of the body corporate, elect
or appoint a person to fill such vacancy ;

5

10

15

(4) Subect to the provisions of this Act, the Board

20

shall decide from time to time.

(a) on the criteria required to be satisfied by any person

to be eligible for membership ;

(b) the  different  classes/categories  of  members

(including honorary members) ;

25

(c) the rights and obligations of the members including

the righ to vote, if any ;

(d) the circumstances in which and how the membership

shall cease ;

Mahawilachchiya  Education  Centre  for  Children
(Incorporation)

5

(5)No members of the Board shall be appointed to any
salaried office in the Centre or any of the offices of the Centre
paid  by  fees  No  remuneration  or  other  monetary  benefits
shall be given by the Centre to any member of the Board,
except reimbursement of expenses incurred on behalf of the
Centre.

6.  Subject to provisions of this Act and any other written
law, the body corporate shall have the power to do, perform
and  execute  all  such  acts  and  matters  as  are  necessary  or
desirable for the promotion and furtherance of the objectives
of  the  body  corporate  or  any  one  of  them,  including  the
power -

Powers  of  the
corporate

(a) to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwise
obtain lands or buildings which may be required for
the purpose of the body corporate and to deal with or
dispose  of  the  same  as  may  be  determined  by  the
Board with a view to promoting the objectives of the
body corporate ;

(b) to enter into and perform or carry out, whether directly
or  through  any  officer  or  agent  authorized  on  that
behalf  by the body corporate, all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment of
the  objectives  or  the  exercise  of  the  powers  of  the
body corporate ;

(c) to  borrow  or  raise  funds  with  or  without  securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations from local or
foreign sources in cash or kind :

Provided  that,  the  Board  shall  obtain  the  prior
written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources in respect of all foreign funds, grants, gifts
or  donations  received  by  or  made  to  the  body
corporate ;

5

10

15

20

25

30

6 Mahawilachchiya  Education  Centre  for  Children

(Incorporation)

5

10

15

20

(d) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy  sell  and  issue  bills  or  exchange,  cheques,
promissory  notes  and  other  negotiable  instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts in
any  bank ;

(e) to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for the purpose of the Body Corporate, in such manner
as the Board may determine ;

(f) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and administer
any lawful trust having objectives similar to those of
the Body Corporate or any real or personal property
with  a  view  to promoting  the  objects  of  the  body
corporate ;

(g) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and other employees of the body corporate
and  exercise  disciplinary  control  over  them  and  to
pay  them  such  salaries,  allowances  as  may  be
determined by the body corporate ;

(h) to organize, lectures, seminars and conferences with
a  view  to  promoting  the  objectives  of  the  body
corporate ;

(i) to  liaise  and  to  co-ordinate  with  other  local  and
foreign institutions having similar objectives to those
of the body corporate ;

25

(j) to train employees in Sri Lanka for the purpose of the

body corporate ; and

(k) to  do  all  such  acts  authorized  by  this  Act  for  the
achievement of the objectives of the body corporate.

30

7. (1)   It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the body corporate and by
a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present

Rules  of  the
body
Corporate

Mahawilachchiya  Education  Centre  for  Children
(Incorporation)

7

and voting, to make ruels, not inconsistant with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law, relating to the following
matters :-

(a) the fees payable by members  ;

(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or vacation
of or removal from office of office bearers and the
powers, duties, and functions or the office bearers ;

(c) the  terms  and  conditions  of  appointment,  powers,
functions  and  duties  of  various  officers  and  other
employees of the body corporate ;

(d) the  procedure  to  be  followed  in  summoning  and
holding of meetings of the body corporate and the
Board,  including    notices  and  agenda  of  such
meetings,  the  quorum  and  the  conduct  of  business
thereat ;

(e) the  qualifications  and  disqualifications  to  be  a
member of the Board and the body corporate  ;

(f) the administration and management of the property

of the body corporate ;

(g) the  procedure  for  and  manner  of  liaising  and
coordinating  with  other  local  and  foreign
insstitutions having objectives similar to that of the
body corporate ; and

(h) generally the management of the affairs of the body
corporate and the  dissolution of the body corporate.

5

10

15

20

25

 (2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be amended,
altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

8 Mahawilachchiya  Education  Centre  for  Children

(Incorporation)

(3) The rules made under subsection (1)  shall be published
in the Gazette and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

5

(4) Every rule made by the body corporate shall, within
three months of its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before the Parliament for approval. Any rule which is not so
approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of  such  disapproval  but  without  prejudice  to  anything
previously  done  thereunder.

10

(5)  Notification  of  the  date  on  which  any  such  rule  is
deemed  to  be  so  rescinded  under  subsection  (4)  shall  be
published in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall, at all times

be subject to the rules of the body corporate.

15

8. The Board shall maintain a register of members of the
Centre in which the name, address and other essential details
of the members shall be inscribed.

Register  of
the  members

Funds  of  the
body
Corporate

9. (1) The body corporate shall  have its own Fund.

20

25

(2)  All    monies  received  by  way  of  gift,  bequest,
donation,  subscription,  contribution,  fees  or  grant  for  and
on account of the body corporate shall be deposited in one
or more banks approved by the Board to the credit of the
body corporate subject to the provisions of Section 6(C).

(3)  All  such  money  a  may  be    required  to  defray
expenditure incurred by the body corporate in the exercise,
performance and discharge of its  duties, powers, functions
and    obligations    under  this  Act,  shall  be  paid  out  of  the
funds.

10. (1) The financial year of the body corporate shall be

the calendar year.

Accounting
and  Auditing

Mahawilachchiya  Education  Centre  for  Children
(Incorporation)

9

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to
be maintained in respect of its income and expenditure, assets
and  liabilities  and  all  other  transactions  of  the  body
corporate.

5

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  the  Auditor  -  General  or  a  qualified  auditor
appointed by the Auditor - General in terms of Article 154 of
the Constitution and be certified by the Auditor - General or
such auditor.

10

(4) For the purpose of this section “qualified auditor”

means-

15

20

25

30

(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute of
Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  any  other
relevant  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate issued by the Council of such Institute to
practise as an Accountant ; or

(b) a firm of Accountants of which each of the resident
partners  is  a  member  of  the  Institute  of  Chartered
Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  of  any  other  relevant
institute established by law, possesses a certificate to
practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council of
such  institute.

Annual
Report

11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of  the  body  corporate  for  each  financial  year  and  submit
such report together with the audited statement of accounts
and a list of all assets and liabilities of the body corporate
certified by the Auditor - General or qualified Auditor or a
qualified auditor referred to in Section 10, to the Secretary
of  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister    assigned  the  subject  of
Education  and  to  the  Registrar  of  the  Voluntary  Social
Service  Organization  (Registration  and  Supervision)  Act,
No. 31 of 1980  before the expiration of six months of the
year succeeding the year to which such report relates.

10 Mahawilachchiya  Education  Centre  for  Children

(Incorporation)

 A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreign
and local monies received by the body corporate and details
of  all  contracts  and  agreements  entered  into  by  the  body
corporate and the rules of the body corporate under Section
7  during  the  financial  year  shall  be  attached  to  the  report
referred to in subsection (1).

12. All debts and liabilities of the Centre existing on the
day  immediately  preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of
this  Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  body  corporate  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to    and  subscriptions  and
contributions payable to the Centre on the day shall be paid
to the body corporate for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the  Centre

13. Subject to the the provisions of this Act and any other
written law the body corporate shall be able and capable in
law to have and hold any property, movable or immovable,
which may  become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant,  gift,  testamentary  disposition  or  otherwise,  and  all
such  property  shall  be  held  by  the  body  corporate  for  the
purpose  of  this  Act  and  subject  to  the  rules  of  the  body
corporate  made  under  Section  7,  with  power  to  sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

The  body
corporate
may  hold
movable  and
inmmovable
property

Application
of  monies
and  property

14. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the income  and
property of the body corporate howsoever derived shall be
utilized solely towards the promoting the objectives of the
body  corporate  and  no  portion  thereof  shall  be  paid  or
transferred directly or indirectly by way of divided, bonus
or profit or otherwise howsoever to members of the body
corporate  provided  that  nothing  herein  shall  prevent  the
payment in good faith of reasonable and proper remuneratioin
to any officer or servant of the body corporate or any members
of  the  body  corporate  in  return  for  any  services  actually
rendered to the  body corporate.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Mahawilachchiya  Education  Centre  for  Children
(Incorporation)

11

15. (1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members  of  the  Board  or  one  member  of  the  Board  and
Secretary of the body corporate or one member of the Board
and  some  other  person  appointed  by  the  Board  for  the
purpose who shall assign their  names to the instrument in
token  of  their  presence  and  such  signing  shall  be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

5

Seal  of  the
body
corporate

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

10

(2)  The  seal  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  in  the
custody of an office bearer of the Board as may be decided
by the Board.

16. (1) If upon the winding up or dissolution of the body
corporate, there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts
and liabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall
not be distributed among the members of the body corporate,
but  shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  any  other  institution
having  objectives  similar  to  those  of  the  body  corporate.
Such institution or institutions  by the rules thereof will be
prohibited from distributing its or their income or property
among its or their members.

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1) of the appropriate
institution or institutions shall be determined by the members
of the body corporate immediately at or before the time of
dissolution at a general meeting by the majority of votes of
the members present.

(3) In determining such institution or institutions so
far as effect cannot be given to subsection (1), any property
so remaining shall be utilized for some charitable objective,
to  be  determined  by  the  members  in  accordance  with
subsection (2).

15

20

25

30

12 Mahawilachchiya  Education  Centre  for  Children

(Incorporation)

17. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.

18. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

Mahawilachchiya  Education  Centre  for  Children
(Incorporation)

13

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

