PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

CONTEMPT OF A COURT, TRIBUNAL OR INSTITUTION
ACT,  No.  8  OF  2024

[Certified on 01st of  February, 2024]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 02, 2024

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 30.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

1

Act, No. 8 of 2024

[Certified on 01st of February, 2024]

L.D.- O. 55/2021

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE UNIFORM APPLICATION OF THE LAW RELATING
TO THE CONTEMPT OF A COURT, TRIBUNAL OR INSTITUTION; TO PROVIDE
FOR THE PROCEDURE IN PUNISHING THE CONTEMPT OF A COURT,
TRIBUNAL OR INSTITUTION; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Contempt  of  a  Court,

Short  title

Tribunal or Institution Act, No. 8 of 2024.

2. The objects of this Act shall be to–

Objects  of  the
Act

(a) uphold  the  dignity  and  authority  of  a  court,

tribunal  and  institution;

(b) protect the due administration of justice;

(c) ensure adherence to judicial directives;

(d) preserve  and  maintain  the  effectiveness  and
impartiality of a court, tribunal and institution;

(e) strike a balance between the right of expression,
fair  comment  and  compliance  with  judicial
directives;

(f) set out with precision the ambit of contempt of a

court, tribunal and institution; and

(g) ensure  the  observance  of,  and  respect  for,  the

due process of law.

Certain  acts
deemed  to  be
contempt  of
a  court,
tribunal  or
institution

2

Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

Act, No. 8 of 2024

3. (1) Save as provided for in any other written law and
subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution,  any  person
who commits an act or omission with intent to-

(a) bring the authority of a court, tribunal or institution
and  administration  of  justice  into  disrespect  or
disregard; or 

(b) interfere with, or cause grave prejudice to the judicial
process in relation to any ongoing litigation,

commits contempt of a court, tribunal or institution, as the
case may be.

(2)   Save as provided for in any other written law and
subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution,  any  person
who does any of the following acts commits contempt of a
court, tribunal or institution, as the case may be- 

(a) willful  disobedience  to  any  judgment,  decree,
direction,  order,  writ  or  other  process  of  a  court,
tribunal  or  institution;

(b) willful  breach  of  an  undertaking  given  to  a  court,

tribunal  or  institution;

(c) expressing,  pronouncing  or  publishing  any  matter
that is false which, or doing any other act which- 

(i)

scandalizes  or  lowers  the  judicial  authority
or dignity of a court, tribunal or institution;

(ii) gravely  prejudices,  or  unlawfully  interferes
with,  the  due  course  of  any  judicial
proceeding;  or

(iii)

interferes with, or obstructs the administration
of justice; 

Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

3

Act, No. 8 of 2024

(d) (i) use of any electronic device or other instrument
for audio or visual recording or both, in a court,
tribunal  or  institution,  or  bringing  into  a  court,
tribunal  or  institution  any  such  device  or
instrument  for  the  purpose  of  audio  or  visual
recording or both, without the leave of the court,
tribunal or institution already obtained; 

(ii) publication or transmission of an audio or a visual
recording  or  both,  of  a  proceeding  or  part  of  a
proceeding of a court, tribunal or institution made
by  means  of  any  electronic  device  or  other
instrument, or any such recording derived directly
or  indirectly  from  such  device  or  instrument
without  the  leave  of  the  court,  tribunal  or
institution  already  obtained;

(iii) use of any electronic device or other instrument,
or publication or transmission of an audio or a
visual  recording  or  both,  of  a  proceeding  of  a
court, tribunal or institution, in contravention of
any  leave  granted  under  sub-paragraph  (i)  or
sub-paragraph (ii); or

(iv) tampering,  altering  or  falsifying  any  audio  or
visual  recording  or  both,  of  a  proceeding  of  a
court, tribunal or institution; or

(e)

scandalizing  a  court,  tribunal  or  institution,  or  a
judge or judicial officer with intent to-

(i)

interfere  with  the  due  administration  of
justice;

(ii)

excite  dissatisfaction  in  the  minds  of  the
public  in  regard  to  a  court,  tribunal  or
institution;  or

(iii)

cast  public  suspicion  on  the  administration
of justice.

Defences  against
contempt  of  a
court,  tribunal
or  institution

Non-disclosure
of  source  of
information

4

Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

Act, No. 8 of 2024

4.  (1)  Any  publication  or  expression  of  accurate  facts
made  in  good  faith  of  a  judge  or  judicial  officer  or,
proceeding,  judgment  or  order  of  a  court,  tribunal  or
institution as the case may be, on a matter of public interest
shall not be deemed to be contempt of such court, tribunal
or institution, where the risk of causing any impediment or
prejudice  to  such  judge  or  judicial  officer  or  proceeding,
judgement or order is merely incidental.

(2)  Any publication or expression-

(a) of  accurate  facts  of  any  case  or  proceedings
before  a  court,  tribunal  or  institution  made
without  malice  or  intention  to  impair  the
administration of justice; or

(b) of fair comments on the merits of any judgment
or order of a court, or action or application which
has been heard and decided,

shall not be deemed to be contempt of a court, tribunal or
institution where every attempt has been made to avoid any
contempt and such publication or expression has been done
bona  fide.

(3) The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) shall not be
construed  as  affecting  or  limiting  any  other  valid  defence
for contempt of a court, tribunal or institution, contained in
any other written law.

5. A person shall not be-

(a)

(b)

required to disclose, during the court proceedings;
or

found guilty of contempt of court for rufusing to
disclose,

the  source  of  information  contained  in  a  publication  for
which  he  is  responsible,  unless  it  is  established  to  the
satisfaction of the court that disclosure is necessary in the
interest of justice or national security or for the prevention
of disorder or crime.

Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

5

Act, No. 8 of 2024

6. (1) The Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal shall
have  the  power  to  punish  for  contempt  of  itself,  whether
committed in its presence or hearing or elsewhere. 

(2)  Where the Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, as
the case may be, in the exercise of its jurisdiction as referred
to in subsection (1), takes cognizance-

Power  of  the
Supreme  Court
and  the  Court  of
Appeal  to
punish  contempt
of  a  court,
tribunal  or
institution 

(a) of contempt of court committed in its presence or
hearing, the Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal
shall hear and determine such matter in accordance
with the procedure set out in section 8; and 

(b) of contempt of court committed otherwise than in
its presence or hearing, the Supreme Court or the
Court  of  Appeal  shall  hear  and  determine  such
matter in accordance with the procedure set out in
section 9.

(3) The Court of Appeal shall have the power to punish
for  contempt  of  a  Court  of  First  Instance  or  tribunal  or
institution, whether committed in its presence or hearing or
elsewhere:

Provided however, the provisions of this section shall
not prejudice or affect the rights of a Court of First Instance
to punish for contempt of itself. 

(4)  Where  the  Court  of  Appeal,  in  the  exercise  of  its
jurisdiction as referred to in subsection (3), takes cognizance
of  contempt  of  a  Court  of  First  Instance  or  tribunal  or
institution referred to in that subsection, the Court of Appeal
shall hear and determine such matter in accordance with the
procedure set out in section 10.

7. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other written
law,  the  Courts  of  First  Instance  shall  have  the  power  to
punish for contempt of court committed in its presence or
hearing  or  in  the  course  of  proceedings  in  such  Courts  of

Power  of  the
Courts  of  First
Instance  to
punish  contempt
of  court

Procedure  where
contempt  of
court  is  in  the
presence  of  the
Supreme  Court
or  the  Court  of
Appeal

6

Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

Act, No. 8 of 2024

First Instance, or any act which is specified in this Act or in
any other written law for the time being in force as being
punishable as contempt of court, subject to the provisions
of this Act. 

(2) Where any Court of First Instance takes cognizance of
contempt of court referred to in subsection (1), such Court of
First  Instance  shall  hear  and  determine  such  matter  in
accordance with the procedure set out in section 11.

8. (1) Where it is alleged, or appears to the Supreme Court
or the Court of Appeal, as the case may be, that a person has
committed contempt of court in its presence or hearing, the
Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal may-

(a)

cause such person to be detained in custody;

(b)

at any time before the rising of the Supreme Court
or  the  Court  of  Appeal,  on  the  day  on  which  the
contempt of court is alleged to have been committed
or as early as possible thereafter, cause a rule to be
issued on him signed by the Registrar of the Court,
giving  particulars  in  writing  of  the  contempt  of
court with which he is charged; and

(c)

fix a date for the hearing of the charge.

(2) On the date fixed for the hearing of the charge, the
person charged with contempt of court shall be afforded an
opportunity to make his defence to the charge.

(3) The Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, as the case
may  be,  shall,  after  affording  the  person  charged  with
contempt of court an opportunity to furnish an affidavit in
defence  and  hearing  the  person  charged  with  contempt  of
court and taking such evidence as may be necessary or as

Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

7

Act, No. 8 of 2024

may be offered by such person, proceed either forthwith or
after such adjournment as the Supreme Court or the Court of
Appeal may think fit, to determine the charge and to make
order for the punishment or discharge of the person charged.

(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding
provisions  of  this  section,  where  a  person  charged  with
contempt  of  court  under  subsection  (1)  applies,  whether
orally or in writing, to have the charge against him tried by
some  Judge  or  Judges  other  than  the  Judge  or  Judges  in
whose presence or hearing the contempt of court is alleged
to have been committed, the Court shall cause the matter to
be placed, together with a statement of the facts of the case,
before  the  Chief  Justice  or  the  President  of  the  Court  of
Appeal as the case may be, for such directions as the Chief
Justice or the President of the Court of Appeal as the case
may be, may think fit to issue with respect to the trial of the
charge.

(5) Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  any  other
written law, at the trial of a person charged with contempt of
court under subsection (1) which is held, in pursuance of a
direction issued under subsection (4), by a Judge or Judges
other than the Judge or Judges in whose presence or hearing
the  contempt  of  court  is  alleged  to  have  been  committed,
the statement of facts  placed before the Chief Justice or the
President of the Court of Appeal as the case may be, under
subsection (4) by the Judge or Judges in whose presence or
hearing  the  contempt  of  court  is  alleged  to  have  been
committed shall be received in evidence, but no such Judge
or Judges shall be summoned or examined  as a witness.

(6) The provisions of subsections (2) and (3) shall, mutatis
mutandis  but  subject  to  the  provisions  of  subsection  (5),
apply to the hearing and determination of the charge by the
Judge  or  Judges  other  than  the  Judge  or  Judges  in  whose

8

Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

Act, No. 8 of 2024

presence or hearing the contempt of court is alleged to have
been  committed,  in  pursuance  of  a  direction  issued  under
subsection (4). 

(7) The Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, as the case
may be, may, pending the determination of a charge under
this section, direct that such person be released on bail subject
to such conditions as such Court may deem fit to impose.

Procedure  where
contempt  of
court  is  not  in
the  presence  of
the  Supreme
Court  or  the
Court  of  Appeal

9. (1) The Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, as the
case  may  be,  may  take  cognizance  of  contempt  of  court
committed against it, or in disrespect of its authority, other
than contempt of court committed in its presence or hearing,
on-

(a)

its own motion;

(b)

(c)

a  motion  filed  by  the  Attorney-General,  together
with any document or thing in support of the motion;
or

a motion filed by any other person, together with
an affidavit and  any document or thing in support
of the motion.

(2)  Every motion or affidavit filed under subsection (1)
shall set out the particulars of the contempt of court alleged
to  have  been  committed  by  the  person  alleged  to  have
committed the contempt of court.

(3) The Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, as the case
may be, shall, after perusing the motion, and the affidavit,
document or thing filed under subsection (1) and satisfying
itself that a prima facie case of contempt of court has been
established  against  the  person  alleged  to  have  committed
such contempt-

Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

9

Act, No. 8 of 2024

(a)

cause a rule to be issued on such person signed by
the  Registrar  of  the  Court,  giving  particulars  in
writing of the contempt of court with which he is
charged;

(b) direct  that  such  rule,  together  with  a  copy  of  the
document  filed  under  subsection  (1),  be  served
personally on such person; and 

(c)

fix a date for the hearing of the charge.

(4)  On the date fixed for the hearing of the charge, the
Attorney-General  may  lead  the  evidence  of  such  witness
relevant  to  the  document  filed  under  subsection  (1),  if
necessary, subject to the right of cross-examination of the
person charged with contempt of court.

(5)  On the date fixed for the hearing of the charge, the
person charged with contempt of court shall be afforded an
opportunity to make his defence to the charge and shall be
entitled  to  file  an  affidavit  or  to  adduce  evidence  in  his
defence. 

(6) The Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, as the case
may be, shall hear and determine the charge after considering
the affidavit filed by the person charged with contempt of
court or after hearing the evidence adduced by such person,
as the case may be.

(7)  Pending  the  determination  of  a  charge  under  this
section, the Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal, as the
case may be, may direct that-

(a)

the  person  charged  with  contempt  of  court  under
this section be detained in such custody as it may
specify; or 

Procedure  for
the  exercise  of
jurisdiction  of
the  Court  of
Appeal  in
respect  of
contempt
committed
against  a  Court
of  First  Instance,
tribunal  or
institution

10

Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

Act, No. 8 of 2024

(b)

such  person  be  released  on  bail  subject  to  such
conditions as it may deem fit to impose.

10.  (1)  The  Court  of  Appeal  may  take  cognizance  of
contempt committed against, or in disrespect of the authority
of, a Court of First Instance or tribunal or an institution on-

(a)

(b)

(c)

a  reference  made  to  it  by  such  Court  of  First
Instance, tribunal or institution;

a  motion  filed  by  the  Attorney-General,  together
with any document or thing in support of the motion;
or

a motion filed by any other person, together with
an affidavit and any document or thing in support
of the motion.

(2)  Every reference made, or motion or affidavit filed
under  subsection  (1)  shall  set  out  the  particulars  of  the
contempt of the court, tribunal or institution as the case may
be, alleged to have been committed by the person alleged to
have committed such contempt.

(3)  The Court of Appeal shall, after perusing the reference
made or the motion or affidavit filed under subsection (1), as
the case may be, and satisfying itself that a prima facie case
of  contempt of  a  court,  tribunal  or  institution,  as  the  case
may be, has been established against the person alleged to
have committed such contempt-

(a)

cause a rule to be issued on such person signed by
the  Registrar  of  the  Court,  giving  particulars  in
writing  of  the  contempt  of  court,  tribunal  or
institution, with which he is charged;

Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

11

Act, No. 8 of 2024

(b) direct  that  such  rule,  together  with  a  copy  of  the
reference  or  motion  and  document  made  or  filed
under subsection (1), be served personally on such
person;  and

(c)

fix a date for the hearing of the charge.

(4)  On the date fixed for the hearing of the charge, the
Attorney-General  may  lead  the  evidence  of  such  witness
relevant  to  the  document  filed  under  subsection  (1),  if
necessary, subject to the right of cross-examination of the
person charged with contempt.

(5)  The  Court  of  Appeal  shall  hear  and  determine  the
charge  after  considering  the  affidavit  filed  by  the  person
charged with such contempt  or  after  hearing  the  evidence
adduced by such person, as the case may be.

(6)    Pending  the  determination  of  a  charge  under  this

section, the Court of Appeal may direct that-

(a)

the  person  charged  with  contempt  of  a  court,
tribunal  or  institution  under  this  section  be
detained in such custody as it may specify; or

(b)

such person be released on bail subject to such
conditions as it may deem fit to impose.

11. (1) Where a Court of First Instance takes cognizance
of contempt of court committed against, or in disrespect of
the authority of, such Court of First Instance, such Court of
First Instance shall, subject to the provisions of subsections
(2) and (3), hear and determine such matter in accordance
with  the  procedure  set  out  in  Chapter  LXV  of  the
Civil Procedure Code.

Procedure  for
the  exercise  of
jurisdiction
conferred  on
the  Courts  of
First  Instance  to
try  contempt  of
court

 
Appeals

12

Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

Act, No. 8 of 2024

(2)  Where the Judge of a Court of First Instance referred
to  in  subsection  (1)  acts  under  section  795  of  the
Civil  Procedure  Code,  such  Judge  shall  inquire  from  the
accused whether he wishes to be tried by a Judge other than
the  Judge  in  whose  presence  or  hearing  the  contempt  of
court is alleged to have been committed. 

(3) If the accused indicates to the Judge of such Court of
First Instance, in response to the inquiry under subsection
(2), orally or in writing, that he wishes to be tried by a Judge
other  than  the  Judge  in  whose  presence  or  hearing  the
contempt of court is alleged to have been committed, such
Judge shall cause the matter to be placed, together with the
minutes of the facts recorded by such Judge, before the Chief
Justice for such directions as the Chief Justice may think fit
to issue with regard to the hearing of the charge. 

12. (1) An appeal may lie from any order or decision of
the  Court  of  Appeal  in  the  exercise  of  its  jurisdiction  to
punish for contempt of itself and a Court of First Instance,
tribunal or institution, as the case may be, to the Supreme
Court.

(2)  The Supreme Court may, pending any appeal, order

that–

(a)

(b)

the  execution  of  the  punishment,  or  the  order  or
decision appealed against be suspended; or 

the appellant, if he is in confinement, be released
on bail.

(3) Where any person who is aggrieved by any order or
decision of a Court of First Instance, against which an appeal
may be filed, indicates to such Court of First Instance that he
intends to prefer an appeal against such order or decision to
the Court of Appeal, such Court of First Instance shall, until
the expiry of the time limit for the filing of the appeal, order–

  
Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

13

Act, No. 8 of 2024

(a)

the execution of the punishment, or the order or
decision appealed against be suspended; or

(b)

the appellant, if he is in confinement, be released
on bail.

13.  (1)  A  court  shall  not  initiate  any  proceedings  in
relation to contempt of a court, tribunal or institution, either
on its own motion or otherwise, after the expiry of a period
of  one  year  from  the  date  on  which  such  contempt  was
formally brought to the attention of that court.

Period  of
limitation  for
proceedings  for
contempt  of  a
court,  tribunal
or  institution

Contempt  of  a
court,  tribunal
or  institution  by
a  body  of
persons

(2)  A tribunal or institution shall not refer to the Court of
Appeal any matter relating to the contempt of such tribunal
or institution, after the expiry of a period of one year from
the date on which such contempt was formally brought to
the attention of that tribunal or institution.

14.  Where  contempt  of  a  court,  tribunal  or  institution

under this Act is committed by a body of persons, then-

(a)

(b)

(c)

if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
director, manager or secretary of that body corporate
at the time of the commission of such contempt;

if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of
that  firm  at  the  time  of  the  commission  of  such
contempt;  and

if that body of persons is an unincorporated body,
every  individual  who  is  a  member  of  such
unincorporated body at the time of the commission
of such contempt,

shall be deemed to have committed that contempt:

 
 
14

Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

Act, No. 8 of 2024

Provided however, any director, manager or secretary
of such body corporate or any partner of such firm or any
individual of such unincorporated body shall not be deemed
to  have  committed  such  contempt  if  he  proves  to  the
satisfaction of the court that such contempt was committed
without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence
to prevent the commission of such contempt.

This  Act  to
prevail  over
other  law

15.  The  provisions  of  this  Act  shall  have  effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any
other  written  law,  and  accordingly,  in  the  event  of  any
inconsistency between the provisions of this Act and such
other law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

Interpretation

16. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires –

“Civil Procedure Code” means, the Civil Procedure

Code (Chapter 101); 

“Court of First Instance” means, the High Court of the
Republic  of  Sri  Lanka,  the  High  Court  for  a
Province  established  by  Article  154P  of  the
Constitution,  the  District  Court,  the  Family
Court, the Small Claims Court, the Magistrate’s
Court or the Primary Court;

“institution”  means,  an  institution  created  and
established by written law for the administration
of justice and for the adjudication and settlement
of industrial and other disputes;

 “publish” means, to disseminate, distribute, exhibit,
provide or communicate by oral, visual, written,
electronic or other means including by way of
newspaper, radio, television or through the use

Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

15

Act, No. 8 of 2024

of the internet or other online communication
system, to the public at large or a member of the
public,  and  includes  causing  to  be  published,
and  “publication”  is  to  be  construed
accordingly;  and

“tribunal” means, a tribunal created and established
by written law for the administration of justice
and  for  the  adjudication  and  settlement  of
industrial and other disputes. 

17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

16

Contempt of a Court,Tribunal or Institution

Act, No. 8 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

