The  Recognition  and  Enforcement  of  International  Settlement
Agreements  Resulting  from  Mediation

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

11

Part II of October 13, 2023

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 16.10.2023)

THE  RECOGNITION   AND   ENFORCEMENT   OF   INTERNATIONAL

SETTLEMENT   AGREEMENTS   RESULTING   FROM

A

BILL

AN ACT to give effect to the United Nations Convention on International
Settlement Agreements resulting from Mediation known as the Singapore
Convention on Mediation; to make Provisions for the Recognition and
Enforcement of International Settlement Agreements; and to provide for
matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Ordered to be published by the Minister of  justice,
Prison Affairs and Constitutional Reforms

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 20.00

            Postage : Rs. 50.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

12

The  Recognition  and  Enforcement  of  International  Settlement  Agreements
Resulting  from  Mediation

The  Recognition  and  Enforcement  of  International  Settlement
Agreements  Resulting  from  Mediation

1

L.D.-O 42/2022

5

10

15

20

AN  ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE UNITED NATIONS CONVENTION
ON INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS RESULTING FROM
MEDIATION  KNOWN  AS  THE  SINGAPORE  CONVENTION  ON
MEDIATION; TO MAKE PROVISIONS FOR THE RECOGNITION AND
ENFORCEMENT OF INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENT AGREEMENTS;
AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS  the  Convention  on  International  Settlement
Agreements Resulting from Mediation (hereinafter referred
to as the “Convention”) was adopted by the United Nations
General Assembly on the Twentieth day of December Two
Thousand and Eighteen, and subsequently came into force
on  the Twelfth day of September Two Thousand and Twenty:

Preamble

AND WHEREAS having recognised the value of mediation
as a method for settling commercial disputes amicably and
noting the increase of the use of mediation internationally
and  nationally,  the  Government  of  Sri  Lanka  signed  the
Convention  on  the  Seventh  day  of August Two Thousand
and Nineteen:

AND  WHEREAS  establishing  a  legal  framework  on
international  mediation  settlements  under  the  Convention
would  reduce  the  instances  where  disputes  result  in
termination of commercial relationships and contribute to the
development of harmonious international economic relations:

25

AND WHEREAS it is necessary for the Government of Sri
Lanka  to  enact  legislative  provisions  to  give  effect  to  Sri
Lanka’s obligations under the Convention:

2

The  Recognition  and  Enforcement  of  International  Settlement  Agreements
Resulting  from  Mediation

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of the

Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.  (1)  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Recognition  and

Enforcement  of  International  Settlement  Agreements
Resulting from Mediation Act, No.   of 2023.

5

Short  title
and  the  date
of  operation

Application
of  the  Act

(2) The provisions of this Act shall come into operation

on such date as the Minister may, by Order published in the
Gazette certify as the date on which the Convention enters

into force in respect of Sri Lanka.

10

2.  (1)  The  provisions  of  this Act  shall,  subject  to  the

provisions of section 3, apply to a written settlement agreement
which is international by nature at the time of its conclusion,

and  which  has  resulted  from  mediation  and  has  been
concluded  by  parties  to  resolve  a  commercial  dispute

15

(hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “international  settlement
agreement”).

(2) The application of the provisions of this Act to any

international  settlement  agreement  shall  be  subject  to  the
same extent specified in such reservations as may be declared

20

under Article 8 of the Convention by the Government of Sri
Lanka.

3. The provisions of this Act shall not apply to-

(a)

settlement agreements that have been entered
into, to resolve a dispute in relation to –

Settlements
excluded
from  the
scope  of
this  Act

25

(i) a  transaction  engaged  in  by  one  of  the

parties  who  is  a  consumer,  for  personal,
family or household purposes;

The  Recognition  and  Enforcement  of  International  Settlement
Agreements  Resulting  from  Mediation

3

              (ii)

family  matters,  inheritance,  or  employment

matters; or

(b)

settlement agreements –

(i)

that  have  been  concluded  or  recorded  as  a

5

judgement of a court, in the course of judicial

proceedings and are enforceable as a judgement

of a court; or

(ii)

that are enforceable as an arbitral award.

4. A settlement agreement shall be international by nature

10

at the time of its conclusion where -

International
settlement
agreement

(a)

at least two of the parties to the settlement agreement

have their places of business in different States; or

(b)

  the  State  in  which  the  parties  to  the  settlement

agreement have their places of business is different

15

from either –

(i)

the  State  in  which  a  substantial  part  of  the

obligations  under  the  settlement  agreement  is

performed; or

(ii)

the State with which the subject matter of the

20

settlement agreement is most closely connected.

5. Every international settlement agreement shall be valid

and enforceable unless a decree of the High Court is refused

upon application made under section 6, and the obligations

assumed thereunder by the parties shall be honoured by the

Validity  of
international
settlement
agreement

25

parties as in the case of any other contractual agreement.

4

The  Recognition  and  Enforcement  of  International  Settlement  Agreements
Resulting  from  Mediation

6. (1) A party to an international settlement agreement may
make an application to the High Court to have the international
settlement agreement entered as a decree of the High Court
for  the  purpose  of  enforcing  such  international  settlement
agreement.

Application
to  the  High
Court

(2) Upon receiving an application under subsection (1), if
the High Court is satisfied that no grounds have been adduced
to adjourn the proceedings or to refuse the grant of the relief
prayed for, under the provisions of this Act, the High Court
shall, on a day of which notice shall be given to the parties,
proceed  to  enter  judgement  according  to  the  international
settlement agreement whereupon a decree shall be entered.

5

10

(3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, an international
settlement agreement that is recorded by the High Court as a
decree of the High Court may be-

15

(a)

(b)

enforced in the same manner as a judgement given,
or an order made, by the High Court; and

relied  upon  by  the  parties  to  the  international
settlement  agreement  as  a  defence,  set-off  or
otherwise in any court proceedings.

(4) The High Court shall have cognizance of and full power

to hear and determine all actions specified in this Act.

7.  Where  a  dispute  arises  in  any  action  in  relation  to  a
matter  which  a  party  claims  to  have  been  resolved  by  an
international  settlement  agreement,  such  international
settlement  agreement  shall  be  admissible  as  evidence  to
establish that such matter has already been resolved.

Admissibility
of
international
settlement
agreement  in
court  as
evidence

20

25

The  Recognition  and  Enforcement  of  International  Settlement
Agreements  Resulting  from  Mediation

5

8. (1) A party who makes an application to the High Court

under  section  6  or  who  intends  to  rely  on  an  international
settlement agreement which is admissible as evidence under
the provisions of section 7 in any court proceeding shall submit
the following documents to the High Court or court, as the
case may be: -

5

Requireuments
for
reliance  on
international
settlement
agreements

(a) The  original  or  a  duly  certified  copy  of  the
international  settlement  agreement  signed  by
the parties; and

10

(b) evidence  that  the  international  settlement

agreement resulted from mediation, such as –

15

20

(i)

(ii)

the signatures of the mediator or mediators
on the international settlement agreement;

a  document  signed  by  the  mediator  or
mediators certifying that the international
settlement agreement was entered into as
a result of mediation facilitated by such
mediator or mediators, as the case may be;

(iii) an  attestation  by  the  institution  that

administered   the mediation; or

(iv)

in the absence of (i), (ii) or (iii), any other
evidence acceptable to Court.

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  subsection  (1)  “signature”  shall

include an electronic signature.

25

(3)  The  High  Court  or  any  other  court  may  require  the
production before it of any document necessary to verify that
the  requirements  specified  in  subsection  (1)  have  been
complied with.

6

The  Recognition  and  Enforcement  of  International  Settlement  Agreements
Resulting  from  Mediation

(4) Where the international settlement agreement is not in
the  language  of  the  court,  the  court  may  require  the
international settlement agreement to be accompanied by a
certified translation in the language of the court.

5

(5) For the purposes of subsection (4), the translation shall
be  certified  by  an  official  or  a  sworn  translator  or  by  a
diplomatic or a consular agent in Sri Lanka of the country in
which  the  international  settlement  agreement  was  entered
into or otherwise to the satisfaction of the court.

10

15

9. (1) The High Court to which an application is made in
terms of section 6, or any other court in which an international
settlement agreement is sought to be admitted as evidence in
terms of section 7 may refuse to grant the relief, if any party
to the international settlement agreement furnishes proof to
establish that –

Grounds  for
refusing  an
application  to
the  High
Court  or
admissibility
of  evidence

(a)

a party to the international settlement agreement
was under some incapacity;

(b)

 the international settlement agreement-

(i)

(ii)

 is null and void, inoperative or  incapable  of
being performed under the applicable law;

 is not binding, or is not final, according to its
terms; or

(iii) has been subsequently modified;

(c)

the obligations in the international settlement
 agreement –

20

25

(i) have been duly performed; or

(ii) are not clear or comprehensible;

The  Recognition  and  Enforcement  of  International  Settlement
Agreements  Resulting  from  Mediation

7

5

10

(d) granting relief would be contrary to the terms of the

international settlement agreement;

(e)

(f)

 there was a serious breach by the mediator of the
standards  applicable  to  the  mediator,  or  the
mediation, without which   breach that party would
not have entered into the    international settlement
agreement; or

there was a failure by the mediator to disclose to
the parties the circumstances that raise justifiable
doubts  as  to  the  mediator’s  impartiality  or
independence  and  the  failure  to  disclose  had  a
material  impact  or  undue  influence  on  a  party,
without  which  failure  that  party  would  not  have
entered into the international settlement agreement.

15

(2)  The  court  may  also  refuse  to  grant  relief  if  it  finds

that –

(a)

(b)

granting relief would be contrary to the public policy
of Sri Lanka; or

the subject matter of the dispute is not capable of
settlement by mediation under the laws of Sri Lanka.

10. Where an international settlement agreement has been
recorded as a decree of the High Court under subsection(2)
of  section  6  in  the  absence  of  a  party  to  the  international
settlement  agreement,  the  High  Court  may,  upon  the
application of that party, set aside the decree of court on any

ground  on  which  the  High  Court  may  refuse  to  grant  the
application to record the international settlement agreement
as a decree of court.

Setting  aside
of
decree  of
court

20

25

8

The  Recognition  and  Enforcement  of  International  Settlement  Agreements
Resulting  from  Mediation

Parallel
applications
or  claims

11. Where an application has been made in terms of section
6 and is pending, and an application or a claim relating to
such international settlement agreement (hereinafter referred
to as a “parallel application”) has been made and is pending
in any other court, in an  arbitral tribunal  or in any other
institution having jurisdiction in Sri Lanka or in any other
State,  and  the  High  Court  is  of  the  opinion  that  the
proceedings of the parallel application may or are likely to
affect the relief sought in terms of section 6, the High Court
may -

(a)

adjourn the determination of the application before
it until the proceedings of the parallel application
are concluded; and

(b) on the request of a party, order the other party to

give suitable security.

12. (1) Every application to the High Court under section
6 of this Act, shall be made by way of petition and affidavit,
and all parties to the mediation other than the petitioner or
petitioners shall be named as respondents to such petition
and shall be given notice of the same.

Proceedings
before  the
High  Court

(2) Upon the petition and affidavit being presented, the
High Court shall appoint a day within two weeks of such
presentation for the determination of the matters set out in
the petition, and grant the respondents a date to state their
objections, if any, in writing supported by affidavit, and make
available copies thereof to the petitioner.

(3)  Evidence  shall  be  given  by  way  of  affidavit  in

proceedings before the High Court:

5

10

15

20

25

30

 Provided however, where the High Court deems fit, it may
take  evidence  viva  voce  in  addition  to  evidence  given  by
affidavit.

(4) Where an international settlement agreement has been
recorded as a decree of the High Court, it may be enforced in

The  Recognition  and  Enforcement  of  International  Settlement
Agreements  Resulting  from  Mediation

9

the same manner as a decree entered under the provisions of
the Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101) and accordingly the
provisions  of  Chapter  XXII  of  that  Code  relating  to  the
execution of decrees shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such
enforcement.

5

(5) The High Court shall hear and finally dispose of the
case within three months of the making of the application
under section 6.

10

13. Where notices and summons are required to be served
on  any  person  under  this Act,  such  notices  and  summons
shall  be  served  in  or  out  of  Sri  Lanka  in  accordance  with
Chapter VIII of the Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101).

Notices  and
summons

15

20

14. The provisions of the Mutual Assistance in Civil and
Commercial Matters Act, No. 39 of 2000 shall apply in respect
of  providing  assistance  to  any  country  as  declared  under
section  4  of  that Act  for  service  of  summons  and  other
documents in a proceeding relating to a civil and commercial
matter.

Assistance  to
a  country

15. Where an application is made in terms of section 6,
and no grounds are submitted to refuse such application in
terms of section 9 or to adjourn the proceedings in terms of
section 11, the High Court shall proceed to make a judgment
according to the said agreement and enter the final decree on
the final date for notice returnable.

Final  decree
on  the  final
date  for
notice
returnable

25

16. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

Interpretation

“electronic” shall have the same meaning as in the
               Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006;

“electronic signature” shall have the same meaning as in

              the  Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006;

10

The  Recognition  and  Enforcement  of  International  Settlement  Agreements
Resulting  from  Mediation

“High Court” means the High Court established for the
Province by Article 154p of the Constitution and exercising
civil  jurisdiction  under  the  High  Court  of  the  Provinces
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 1996;

  “mediation”  means  a  process,  irrespective  of  the
expression used to the basis upon which the process is carried
out, whereby parties attempt to reach an amicable settlement
of their dispute with the assistance of one or more third parties
(“the mediator”) lacking the authority to impose a solution
upon the parties to the dispute;

“parties” means the parties to the international settlement
agreement in relation to the mediation, and does not include
the mediator or mediators conducting the mediation;

“place of business” means –

(a)

(b)

the principal place at which that party conducts
business of such party;

if a party has more than one place of business,
the  place  of  business  which  has  the  closest
relationship  to  the  dispute  resolved  by  the
international  settlement  agreement,  having
regard  to  the  circumstances  known  to,  or
contemplated by, the parties at the time of the
conclusion  of  the  international  settlement
agreement;

(c)        if a party does not have a place of business, it
means the habitual residence of the party; and

5

10

15

20

25

‘‘written”  includes  an  electronic  communication  if  the
information contained therein is accessible so
as to be useable  for subsequent reference.

30

17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

The  Recognition  and  Enforcement  of  International  Settlement
Agreements  Resulting  from  Mediation

13

14

The  Recognition  and  Enforcement  of  International  Settlement  Agreements
Resulting  from  Mediation

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

