PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SURCHARGE  TAX  ACT,  No. 14  OF  2022

[Certified on 08th of April, 2022]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 08, 2022

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 2022

1

[Certified on 08th of April, 2022]

L.D.–O. 2/2022

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION OF SURCHARGE TAX AND
FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.  This Act may be cited as the Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14

Short  title

of  2022.

2.  (1)  There  shall  be  levied,  subject  to  the  succeeding
provisions  of  this Act,  a  tax  to  be  called  Surcharge  Tax
(hereinafter referred to as “the tax”) from –

Imposition  of
Surcharge  Tax

(a) any  individual,  partnership  or  company,  whose
taxable income calculated in accordance with the
provisions  of  the  Inland  Revenue Act,  No.  24  of
2017, exceeds rupees two thousand million, for the
year of assessment commenced on April 1, 2020, at
the rate of twenty five per centum on the taxable
income of such individual, partnership or company,
for such year of assessment:

Provided however, the income of a partner derived
from a partnership shall not be taken into account
when calculating the taxable income of such partner
as an individual under this paragraph, if the tax has
been paid by the partnership on such taxable income;
and

(b) each company of a group of companies, of which
the  aggregate  of  the  taxable  income  of  all
subsidiaries and the holding company in that group
of  companies,  calculated  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  of  the  Inland  Revenue Act,  No.  24  of
2017, exceeds rupees two thousand million, for the
year of assessment commenced on April 1, 2020,     at
the rate of twenty five per centum, on the taxable

2

Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 2022

income of each such company after deducting the
gains and profits from dividends received from a
subsidiary which is part of such taxable income of
each such company, for such year of assessment,
notwithstanding that the taxable income of any one
of  such  companies  does  not  exceed  rupees  two
thousand million:

Provided however, if a company is liable to pay the tax in
terms of paragraph (b), such company shall not be liable to pay
the tax in terms of paragraph (a).

(2) In calculating the aggregate of the taxable income under
paragraph (b) of subsection (1), any subsidiary or any holding
company of such group of companies which has a nil amount
of taxable income, due to losses or unrelieved losses, shall
not be taken into account.

(3)  Where  the  Commissioner-General  has  approved  an
alternative period of twelve months under the provisions of
the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017, for the purpose of
maintaining accounts of any company liable to pay the tax
under this Act, such approved period shall be deemed to be
the year of assessment commenced on April 1, 2020, for the
purposes of this Act.

(4)  Every  individual,  partnership,  company  and  the
subsidiaries  and  the  holding  company  of  every  group  of
company liable to pay the tax under this Act, shall pay the tax
in two equal installments on or before, the twentieth day of
April and twentieth day of July of 2022, to the Commissioner-
General.

(5) The tax shall be collected by the Commissioner-General
and shall be remitted to the Consolidated Fund within fifteen
days from the date of collection.

Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 2022

3

(6) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any

other written law, –

(a) the tax levied under this Act shall be deemed to be
an expenditure in the financial statement relating to
the year of assessment commenced on April 1, 2020;

(b) no  deduction  shall  be  granted  in  calculating  the
taxable income under the Inland Revenue Act, No.
24  of  2017,  for  any  year  of  assessment,  for  the
payment of the tax under this Act;

(c) no deduction shall be granted in calculating the Value
Added Tax on the supply of financial services under
the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002, for the
payment of the tax under this Act.

(7) For the purpose of this section “taxable income”–

(a) in relation to a company which has entered into an
agreement with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
under section 17 of the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978 and has become liable to
income  tax  determined  in  accordance  with  such
agreement, after the expiration of its period of tax
exemption set out in such agreement means the profit
before income tax  of such company as per the audited
financial statement;

(b) in relation to an individual, a partnership, a company
and the subsidiaries and the holding company of a
group  of  companies  other  than  the  companies
referred  to  in  paragraph  (a),  shall  have  the  same
meaning assigned to such expression under section
3 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017.

4

Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 2022

Tax  return  shall
be  furnished

3.  (1)  Every  individual,  partnership,  company  and  the
subsidiaries  and  the  holding  company  of  every  group  of
company chargeable with the tax under this Act shall on or
prior to April 20, 2022, furnish in writing to the Commissioner-
General, a tax return in the specified form containing such
particulars as may be specified by the Commissioner-General.

(2) The Commissioner-General shall specify –

(a) the form for tax returns;

(b) the information to be furnished on the tax return
and attachments if any, required to be filed with
the tax return; and

(c) the manner of filing.

(3) For the purpose of this Act, a tax return furnished under
subsection  (1)  shall  be  treated  as  a  “tax  return”  under  the
provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 and
shall result in a self-assessment.

4. (1) Where any individual, partnership, company or the
subsidiaries  and  the  holding  company  of  any  group  of
companies is liable to pay the tax under this Act, fails to pay
such  tax,  as  provided  for  in  this  Act,  such  individual,
partnership,  company  or  subsidiaries  and  the  holding
company of the group of companies shall be deemed to be a
defaulter of the tax under this Act.

(2) It shall be lawful for an assessment to be made in the
name of the partnership and the amounts thereon shall be
recoverable out of the assets of the partnership, or from any
partner, or from any agent of the partnership.

Default  in
payment  of  the
tax

Application  of
the  certain
provisions  of
the  Inland
Revenue Act,
No.24  of  2017

Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 2022

5

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),
the provisions of Chapter IX , Chapter X, Chapter XI, Chapter
XII, Chapter XIII, Chapter XIV, Chapter XV, Chapter XVI,
Chapter XVII, Chapter XVIII of the Inland Revenue Act, No.24
of  2017  shall,  mutatis  mutandis,  be  applicable  to  the
administration, record keeping and information collection,
tax returns, assessments, objections and appeals, liability for
and payment of tax, interest, recovery of tax, penalties and
criminal proceedings under this Act.

(2) Every reference to income tax in any such provisions of
the Inland Revenue Act, No.24 of 2017, shall be deemed to be
a  reference  to  the  tax  charged  and  levied  in  terms  of  the
provisions of this Act.

(3)  Any  default  assessment,  amended  assessment  or
additional  assessment  shall  not  be  made  in  respect  of  an
individual, a partnership, a company or the subsidiaries and
the holding company of a group of companies after the thirty
first day of December, 2024:

Provided however, above time limit shall not apply for
making  any  amended  assessment  based  on  a  decision  of
objection or appeal.

6. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires–

Interpretation

“Commissioner-General” shall have the same meaning
assigned  to  such  expression  under  the  Inland
Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;

“Company” shall have the same meaning assigned to
such expression under the Inland Revenue Act,
No.  24  of  2017  but  does  not  include  any
Employees’ Trust Fund, Provident Fund, Pension
Fund,  Pension  Trust  Fund,  Gratuity  or
Termination Fund including –

6

Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 2022

(a) Employees’ Provident Fund established under
section  2  of  the  Employees’  Provident  Fund
Act, No. 15 of 1958;

(b) Employees’  Trust  Fund  established  under
section 3 of the Employees’ Trust Fund Act,
No. 46 of 1980;

(c) Ceylon Electricity Board Provident Fund and
Ceylon  Electricity  Board  Pension  Fund
established under paragraph (j) of section 12
of the Ceylon Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of
1969;

(d) Universities Provident Fund established under
section 90 of the Universities Act, No. 16 of
1978;

(e) Mercantile  Service  Provident  Society
established under section 3 of the Chamber of
Commerce Ordinance (Chapter 289);

( f ) Bank of Ceylon Provident Fund established by
the Bank of Ceylon established under the Bank
of Ceylon Ordinance (Chapter 397);

(g) Hatton National Bank Employees’ Provident
Fund established by the Hatton National Bank
Public Limited Company incorporated under the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007;

(h) People’s Bank Pension Trust Fund established
under paragraph (l) of subsection (1) of section
5 of the People’s Bank Act, No. 29 of 1961;

(i) Sri Lanka Central Bank Employees’ Pension
Fund  established  under  paragraph  (b)  of
section  10  of  the  Monetary  Law  Act
(Chapter 422)

Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 2022

7

( j) Sri Lanka Telecom Provident Fund established
by  the  Sri  Lanka  Telecom  Public  Limited
Company incorporated under the Companies
Act, No. 7 of 2007;

(k) National  Insurance  Trust  Fund  established
under section 3 of the National Insurance Trust
Fund Act, No. 28 of 2006;

(l) Bank  of  Ceylon  Pension  Trust  Fund  2014
(Post  1996)  established  under  the  Trusts
Ordinance (Chapter 87); and

(m) any  provident  fund  or  contributory  pension
scheme  approved  by  the  Commissioner  of
Labour in terms of Part IV of the Employees’
Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958;

“group of companies” means a holding company and

its subsidiaries;

“holding company” means a company which as at the
Thirty First day of March 2021, owns more than
fifty per centum of the shares with voting rights
of another company, directly or indirectly, other
than  a  holding  company  incorporated  outside
Sri Lanka and not registered under Chapter XVIII
of the Companies Act, No.7 of 2007;

“partnership” shall have the same meaning assigned
to such expression under the Inland Revenue Act,
No. 24 of 2017;

“tax return” shall have the same meaning assigned to
such expression under the Inland Revenue Act,
No. 24 of 2017;

8

Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 2022

“subsidiary” means a company in which as at the Thirty
First  day  of  March  2021,  more  than  fifty  per
centum  of  its  shares  with  voting  rights  were
owned by another company, directly or indirectly
other than a subsidiary incorporated outside Sri
Lanka and not registered under Chapter XVIII of
the Companies Act, No.7 of 2007 of a holding
company incorporated outside Sri Lanka and not
registered under Chapter XVIII of the Companies
Act;

“year  of  assessment”  shall  have  the  same  meaning
assigned to such expression under section 20 of
the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Surcharge Tax Act, No. 14 of 2022

9

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

