PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

————————

DASSANA  BAUDDHA  SANVIDHANAYA
(INCORPORATION)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya

————————

Presented by the Hon.Chandima Weerakkody, M.P.
for Galle District on 21st of October, 2021

(Published in the Gazette on September 27, 2021)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

[Bill No. 82]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 15. 00

2-

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

2-2d

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya    (Incorporation)

1

AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DASSANA BAUDDHA SANVIDHANAYA

WHEREAS an Organization called and known as the “Dassana
Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya”  has  heretofore  been  established  in
Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects
and  transacting  all  matters  connected  with  the  said
Organization according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Organization  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to
grant the said application:

BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Dassana  Bauddha

Short  title

Sanvidhanaya  (Incorporation) Act, No.    of  2021.

2.

(1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now  are members of  the
Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya (hereinafter referred to as the
“Sanvidhanaya”) and shall hereafter be admitted as members
of  the  body  corporate  hereby  constituted  and  shall  have
perpetual succession, under the name and style of  the “Dassana
Bauddha Sanvidhanaya” (hereinafter referred to as the “ body
corporate”) and by that name may sue and be sued, with full
power and  authority to have and  use a common seal and to alter
the same at its pleasure.

Incorporation
of  the
Dassana
Bauddha
Sanvidhanaya

5

10

15

20

25

3. The  general  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

(a) to  organize  and  conduct  Sathara  Sathipattana

meditation programmes;

30

(b) to spread in the society, the activity of purification of
the  mind  which  is  the  message  of  the  Theravada
Buddhism;

General
objects  of  the
body
corporate

2    Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya  (Incorporation)

(c) to  make  arrangements  to  provide,  alms  and  other
requisites to the residents Bhikkus, Dasa sil Mathas,
Upasakas and Upasikas of the Bebalagama Nagalen
Rajamha Vihara;

(d) to oraganize appropriate programmes and activities
with a view to protecting Theravada Buddhism.

4.  The  objects  of  the  body  corporate  shall  be  carried
out in such manner so as not to create any conflict between
the work of the body corporate and any work being carried
out  simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or any Provincial Council.

5.

(1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  the
rules  made  under  section  9,  the  management  and
administration of the affairs of the body corporate shall be
carried out by an Executive Board consisting of the President
who shall be a resident Bhikku of the Bebalagama Nagalen
Rajamha Vihara, two Vice Presidents, Secretary, Assistant
Secretary, Treasurer and such number of office bearers, as
may  be  elected  or  appointed  in  accordance  with  the  rules
made under section 9.

(2)  (a) The  members  of  the  Executive  Board  of  the
Organization  holding  office  on  the  day  immediately
preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this  Act  shall
function as an Interim Board of the body corporate until the
first Board is appointed or elected in the manner provided
for by rules made under Section 9.

(b) The Interim Board shall have the power to make
rules  in  respect  of  the  interim  administration  of  the  body
corporate and the election or appointment of the members
of the first Executve Board of the body corporate.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Body
corporate  to
ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of
Ministry  or
Department
of  the
Government
or  Province

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the  body
corporate

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya    (Incorporation)

3

(c) Any decision of the Interim Board shall be taken
by  the  majority  of  its  members  present  at  any  meeting
thereof.

5

(d) The  first  Executive  Board  of  the  body  corporate
shall be appointed or elected within one year of the date of
commencement of this Act.

(3)

(a) Every office bearer of the Executive Board  shall
be  appointed  or  elected  for  a  period  of  one  year  and  any
such  office  bearer  shall  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  or
re-election after lapse of the said period of one year.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Executive Board shall having regard to the rules
of the body corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such
vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.

6. The  Chief  Incumbent  of  the  Bebalagama  Nagalen
Rajamaha Vihara shall be the patron to advise the Executive
Board in respect of the management and administration of
the body corporate.

Patron

7.

There  shall  be  appointed  in  accordance  with  the
rules made under section 9, any Committee or sub-committee
consisting of the members of the Organization to achieve the
objectives of the body corporate as may be determined by
the Executive Board.

Committees
of  the  body
corporate

10

15

20

25

8. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other

written law, the body corporate shall have the power–

Powers  of  the
body
corporate

30

(a) to purchase, acquire, construct, renovate or otherwise
obtain lands or buildings which may be required for

4    Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya  (Incorporation)

the purpose of the body corporate and dispose of the
same as may be determined by the Executive Board
expedient with a view to promoting the objeccts of
the body corporate;

(b) to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations from local or
foreign sources in cash or kind:

Provided  that,  the  Executive  Board  shall  obtain
the  prior  written  approval  of  the  Department  of
External Resources, in respect of all foreign grants,
gifts or donations made to the body corporate;

(c) to invest any funds are not immediately required for
the purposes of the body corporate in such manner as
the Executive Board may determine;

(d) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of  officers  and  servants  of  the  body  corporate  and
exercise  disciplinary  control  over  them  and  to  pay
them such salaries, allowances as may be determined
by the body corporate;

(e) to open, maintain and close any current, savings or
any other account in any bank or banks as may be
determined by the Executive Board;

(f) enter into, perform or carry out, whether directly or
through any officer or agent authorized in that behalf
by  the  body  corporate,  all  such  contracts  or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment of
the objects or the exercise of the powers of the body
corporate;

(g) appoint any committee or sub-committee as and when
necessary  to  carry  out  any  functions  of  the  body
corporate  as  may  be  determined  by  the  Executive
Board;

5

10

15

20

25

30

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya    (Incorporation)

5

(h) to borrow or raise funds required for the purposes of

the body corporate; and

(i) to do all othe things as are necessary or expedient for
the proper and effective carrying out the objects of
the body corporate.

9.

(1)  It  shall  be  lawful  for  the  body  corporate,  from
time to time, at any General Meeting of the body corporate
and by a majority of not less than two - thirds of the members
present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:–

Rules  of  the
body
corporate

5

10

(a)

the  classification  of  membership,  and  admission,
resignaton  or  expulsion  of  members  and  fees
payable by such members;

15

(b)

the election of office bearers of the Executive Board,
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;

(c)

(d)

20

25

the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
duties,  functions  and  remuneration  of  various
officers and servants  of the body corporate;

the  procedure  to  be  followed  in  the  summoning
and holding of meetings of the Executive Board, or
any  other  committee  or  sub-committee  thereof,
notices and agenda of such meetings, the quorum
and the conduct of business thereat;

(e)

the  qualifications  and  disqualifications  to  be  a
member  of  the  Executive  Board  or  any  other
Committee or sub-committee thereof;

30

(f)

the administration and management of the property
of the body corporate; and

6    Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya  (Incorporation)

(g) generally the management of the affairs of the body
corporate, the accomplishment of its’ objects and
dissolution of the body corporate.

5

(2) Any  rules  made  by  the  Body  corporate  may  be
amended,  altered,  added  to  or  rescinded  at  a  like  meeting
and in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of
this  section.

(3)

The members of the body corporate shall at all times

be subject to rules of the body corporate.

10

(4) The rules made under this section shall be published

in the Gazette.

10.

(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund and
all  moneys  received  by  way  of  gift,  bequest,  donation,
subscription, contribution, fees or grant for and on account
of the body corporate shall be deposited to the credit of the
body  corporate  in  one  or  more  banks  approved  by  the
Executive  Board.

Fund  of  the
body
corporate

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums of
money as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by
the  body  corporate  in  the  exercise,  performance  and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under the Act.

11. Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  the  body
corporate shall be able and capable in law to take and hold
any property, movable and immovable, which may become
vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and all such property shall be held
by the body corporate for the purpose of this Act and subject
to the rules of the body corporate made under section 9, with
power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose
of the same.

body
corporate
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

15

20

25

30

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya    (Incorporation)

7

12. The money and property of the body corporate shall
be  applied  solely  towards  the  promotion  of  the  objects  of
the body corporate and no portion thereof shall be paid or
transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend, bonus
or profit to the members of the body corporate.

5

Application
of  moneys
and  property

13.

(1) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts
to be kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the body corporate.

Accounts  and
auditing

10

(2) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited
annually  by  the  Auditor  General  or  a  qualified  auditor
appointed by the Auditor-General in terms of Article 154 of
the  Constitution.

(3)  For  the  purpose  of  this  section  “qualified  auditor”

means—

15

(a)

20

25

an  individual  who,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant issued by  the Committee of such
institute;  or

(b)

a  firm  of  Accountants,  each  of  the  resident
partners  of  which,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or  of  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
institute.

(4) The financial year of the body corporate shall be the

calendar year.

30

14.

(1) The Executive Board shall prepare a report of
the activities of the body corporate for each financial year
and submit such report togother with the audited statement

Annual
Report

8    Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya  (Incorporation)

of accounts to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Buddhasasana before the expiration
of six months of the year succeeding the year to which such
report relates.

5

(2) A separate statement relating to the foreign and local
moneys received by the body corporate during the financial
year shall be attached to the report referred to in subsection (1).

15. All debts and liabilities of the Organization existing
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act,  shall  be  paid  by  the  body  corporate  hereby
constituted  and  all  debts  due  to  and  subscriptions  and
contributions payable to the Organization on that day shall
be paid to the body corporate for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Organization

16.

(1) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the
custody  of  the  Secretary  or  any  other  office  bearer  of  the
Executive  Board  as  may  be  decided  by  such  Executive
Board.

Seal  of  the
Body
corporate

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixed to
any  instrument  whatsoever,  except  in  the  presence  of  the
President, Secretary and the Treasurer who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.

17.

(1)  If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  body  corporate
there  remains  after  the  satisfaction  of  all  its  debts  and
liabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be  distributed  among  the  members  of  the  body  corporate,
but  shall  be  given  or  transferred  to  any  other  institution
having objects similar to those of the body corporate, and
which is  by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its members.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

10

15

20

25

30

Dassana  Bauddha  Sanvidhanaya    (Incorporation)

9

(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate
institution  shall  be  determined  by  the  members  of  the
Corporation immediately before the dissolution at a general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

5

18. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic

19.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

10

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

10    Dassana Bauddha Sanvidhanaya  (Incorporation)

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

