PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

PREVENTION OF OFFENCES RELATING TO SPORTS
ACT,  No.  24  OF  2019

[Certified on 18th of  November, 2019]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 22, 2019

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 36.00

Postage : Rs. 35.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

1

[Certified on 18th of November, 2019]

L.D.—O. 17/2014

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PREVENTION OF MATCH FIXING, CORRUPTION,
ILLEGAL MANIPULATION AND ILLEGAL BETTING IN SPORTS AND FOR THE
APPOINTMENT OF A SPECIAL INVESTIGATIONS UNIT FOR INVESTIGATION
OF OFFENCES AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the Prevention of Offences

Short  title.

relating to Sports Act,   No. 24 of 2019.

PART  I

OBJECTS AND THE APPLICATION OF THE PROVISIONS OF THE ACT

2. The objects  of the Act shall be—

Objects  of  the
Act.

(a)

(b)

(c)

to  prevent  match  fixing,  corruption,  illegal
manipulation and illegal betting in sports;

to  strengthen  national  and  international
co-operation among sports organizations, law
enforcement agencies and  betting operators
to  exchange  information  relating  to  match
fixing,  corruption,  illegal  manipulation  and
illegal  betting  in  sports  and  promote  best
practices in sports;

to  conduct  programs  in  order  to  promote
awareness on issues relating to match fixing,
corruption,  illegal  manipulation  and  illegal
betting  in  sports  and  improve  coordination
amongst stake holders;

2

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

to  protect  and  maintain  the  integrity  of
national  sports;

to  introduce  and  promote  preventive
measures  in  collaboration  with  law
enforcement agencies  against match fixing,
corruption,  illegal  manipulation  and  illegal
betting in sports;

to  protect  the  goodwill  and  livelihood  of
professional sports personnel; and

to  appoint  an  independent,  impartial
Special  Investigations  Unit  to  carry  out
investigations into offences of  match fixing,
corruption,  illegal  manipulation  and  illegal
betting in sports.

Secretary  to
enter  into
agreements,  &c.

3. For the purpose of achieving the objects of this Act,

the Secretary may, with the concurrence of the Minister-

(a)

(b)

enter  into  any  agreement  or  memorandum  of
understanding  under  this  Act  with  any  sports
organization or law enforcement  agency, whether
national or international,  to promote  best practices
in  sports  and  maintaining  and  upgrading
professional standards of sports; and

exchange  information  relating  to  match  fixing,
corruption, illegal manipulation and illegal betting
in sports with any national or international sports
organization or law enforcement agency.

PART  II

CHAPTER I

OFFENCES OF MATCH FIXING, CORRUPTION, ILLEGAL
MANIPULATION AND ILLEGAL BETTING IN SPORTS

Offence  of
match  fixing  in
sports.

4.

(1) Any person or any person connected to a sport
who,  directly  or  indirectly,  alone  or  in  conjunction  with
another  or  others  gets  involved  in  any  arrangement  on  an

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

3

irregular alteration of the course or the result of any sport or
sporting  event  for  money  or  any  other  reward  or  benefit,
including any arrangement where—

(a)

any person or any person connected to a sport—

(i)

(ii)

engages in betting, gambling or  any other
activity  involving  financial  or  any  other
advantage  to  himself  or  another  person,
or causes a financial disadvantage or loss
to  another  person  knowing  that  it  would
corrupt any sport or sporting event;

acts  in  a  manner  that  ensures  the
occurrence of any improper performance,
act, omission or an outcome, which is the
subject of an illegal bet relating to a sport
or any sporting event;

(iii) provides  for  financial  or  any  other
advantage,  reward  or  benefit,  any  inside
information  relating  to  a  sport,  any
sporting event  or any person, to any person
including a betting operator, other than in
connection  with  bona  fide  media
interviews and commitments;

(iv) provides  or  receives  any  gift,  payment,
reward or benefit, financial or otherwise,
that might reasonably be expected to bring
such person or any sport or sporting event
into disrepute; or

(v)

engages  in  any  act  or  omission  that  is
directly or indirectly related to any of the
conduct  specified  in  the  preceding
paragraphs  and  is  prejudicial  to  the
interests of any sport or sporting event;

4

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

(b)

any individual player or a group of players—

(i)

receives  money  or  any  other  reward  or
benefit  individually  or  collectively  to
underperform  or  to  withdraw  from  such
sport  or  sporting  event  for  non-genuine
reasons; or

(ii) bets  on  such  sport  or  sporting  event  in
which such player or group of players plays
undermining the performance;

(c)

(d)

any  umpire,  match  adjudicator  or  match  referee
deliberately  misapplies  the  rules  of  the  sport  or
sporting  event  for  money  or  any  other  reward  or
benefit;

any  curator  or  any  member  of  any  venue  staff,
ground staff or support staff  receives money or any
other reward or benefit—

(i)

to prepare any turf, ground or playing surface
of  any  sport  or  sporting  event    in  a  way
agreeable to any person including a betting
operator; or

(ii)

to disclose information of the preparation and
condition  of  the  turf,  ground  or  playing
surface of any sport or sporting event; or

(e) any person including a retired player or any person
connected to a sport is utilized by any other person
to gain access to local or foreign players in order to
influence their performance for money or any other
reward or benefit,

commits the offence of match fixing in sports.

(2) Any person or any person connected to a sport who
directly or indirectly, alone or in conjunction with another

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

5

or others gets involved in any arrangement on an irregular
alteration  of  the  course  or  the  result  of  any  sporting
tournament by any of the acts specified in paragraphs (a) to
(e) of subsection (1) commits the offence of tournament fixing
in sports.

5.  Any person or any person connected to a sport who—

(a)

(b)

(c)

solicits or accepts or  agrees to accept or offers
money  or  any other reward or benefit;

controls  any  other  person  or  thing  for  such
person’s own advantage or to the advantage
of another dishonestly or fraudulently; or

solicits,  entices,  persuades,  induces  or
instructs any person directly or indirectly to
perform or refrain from performing an act,

Offence  of
corruption  in
sports.

to influence the result, progress, conduct or any other aspect
of  any  sport  or  sporting  event  commits  the  offence  of
corruption in sports.

6. Any person or any person connected to a sport who
influences  improperly,  unfairly  or  dishonestly  the  result,
progress, conduct   or any other aspect of any sport or sporting
event commits the offence of illegal manipulation in sports.

Offence  of
illegal
manipulation  in
sports.

7. Any person or any person connected to a sport who
possesses  information  in  connection  with  any  sport  or
sporting  event  knowing  such  information  to  be  inside
information or information on illegal, corrupt conduct and—

Offence  of
illegal  betting  in
sports.

(a) bets on that sport or sporting event;

(b)

(c)

encourages another person to bet on that sport or
sporting  event in a particular way; or

communicates such information to another person
who the first person knows, or ought reasonably to

Aiding,  abetting,
attempting,  &c.,
to  be  an  offence.

6

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

know, would or would be likely to bet on that sport
or sporting event,

commits the offence of illegal betting in sports.

8.    Any person who—

(a)

(b)

aids,  abets,  attempts  or  conspires  in  the
commission  of  any  offence  specified  in
section 4, 5, 6 or 7; or

approaches, induces, influences, encourages,
enables  or  facilitates  any  person  connected
to a sport to commit any offence specified in
section 4, 5, 6 or 7,

commits an offence.

Penalty  for  an
offence  under
section  4,  5,  6,  7
or  8.

9. Any  person  who  commits  an  offence  specified  in
section 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 shall on conviction be liable to a fine
not  exceeding  rupees  one  hundred    million  or  to
imprisonment  for  a  period  not  exceeding  ten  years  or  to
both such fine and imprisonment.

CHAPTER  II

OTHER OFFENCES

Failure  to
disclose
information  to
be  an  offence.

Failure  to
co-operate  etc.,
in  relation  to  an
investigation  to
be  an  offence.

10. Any person or any person connected to a sport who
fails  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  section  16  or  18
commits an offence under this Act and shall, on conviction
by a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding rupees two
hundred  thousand  or  to  imprisonment  for  a  period  not
exceeding three years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

11. Any person who—

(a) willfully  obstructs,  hinders  or  fails  to  co-
operate with  the Secretary, the Director of
Sports, the Unit or any person authorized by
the Unit in the investigation of any offence
under this Act;

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

7

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

fails,  without  reasonable  cause,  to  appear
before the Unit when such person is required
to do so by the Unit for the purpose of any
investigation conducted under this Act;

refuses or fails without reasonable cause, to
answer any question put to him by the Unit
in relation to any matter under investigation
by the Unit;

refuses or fails without reasonable cause, to
comply  with  the  requirements  of  a  notice
issued to such person by the Unit under this
Act;

fails  to  provide  any  information,  report  or
document  when  requested  to  do  so  by  the
Unit  for  the  purpose  of  any  investigation
conducted under this Act;

(f) provides  any  information,  report  or
document  or    makes  any  statement  when
required to do so by the Unit for the purpose
of  any  investigation  conducted  under  this
Act,  knowing  it  to  be  false,  incomplete  or
misleading;  or

(g)

conceals,  falsifies,  destroys  or  otherwise
disposes  of,  or  causes  or  permits  the
concealment,  falsification,  destruction  or
disposal  of,  any  information,  report,
document  or  material  knowing  or  having
reasons  to  believe  that    such  information,
report, document or material is relevant to an
investigation conducted under this Act,

commits an offence under this Act and shall on conviction
by a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding rupees two
hundred  thousand  or  to  imprisonment  for  a  period  not
exceeding three years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Failure  to
maintain
confidentiality
by  a  service
provider  to  be
an  offence.

Making  false
allegations  to  be
an  offence.

8

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

12. Any person who acts in contravention of the duty
imposed  on  such  person  by  section  32  to  maintain
confidentiality, commits an offence under this Act and shall,
on  conviction  by  a  Magistrate,  be  liable  to  a  fine  not
exceeding rupees five hundred thousand or to imprisonment
for a period not exceeding ten years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.

13. Any person who makes any false allegation in any
information  disclosed  by  such  person  under  section  16  of
this Act, knowing the content of such allegation to be false
or having reasons to believe that such allegation is not true,
commits an offence under this Act and shall, on conviction
by a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding rupees one
hundred  thousand  or  to  imprisonment  for  a  period  not
exceeding three years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Offences  by  a
body  of  persons.

14. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a

body of persons, then, if that body of persons is—

(a)

(b)

(c)

a  body  corporate,  then  every  person  who,  at  the
time of the commission of the offence, was a director,
manager, officer or servant of such body corporate;

a firm, then every person who, at the time  of the
commission  of  the  offence,  was  a  partner  of  that
firm; or

an  unincorporated  body  other  than  a  firm,  every
individual  who  was  a  member  of  such  body  and
every  officer  who  was  responsible  for  the
management and control of such body, at the time
of the commission of the offence,

shall be deemed to have committed that offence, unless such
person, individual or officer, as the case may be, proves that
the offence was committed without his knowledge or that
such  person  exercised  all  due  diligence  to  prevent  the
commission of that offence.

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

9

15. For the purposes of this Part—

Interpretation.

(a)

(b)

“information on corrupt conduct”  means
information  relating  to    conduct  or
proposed  conduct    that  corrupts  an
outcome of any sport or sporting event;

“inside  information”  means  information
which  is  not  generally  available  and
which, if it were generally available, would
or would be likely to influence any person
who  commonly  bets  on  any  sport  or
sporting event in deciding whether or not
to bet on such sport or sporting event or
making any other betting decision; and

(c)

“aiding”,  “abetting”,  “attempting”  and
“conspiring” shall have the same meaning
as in the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

PART  III

DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION

16.
sport—

(a)

(1) Where any person or any person connected to a

is approached, induced or threatened by any person
to  engage  in  or  perform  any  act  or  omission  that
constitutes an offence under section 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8;
or

Disclosing
information  to
the  Secretary,
&c.

(b) becomes  aware  of,  or  has  reasons  to  believe,  or
reasonably suspects that any person or any person
connected to a sport has—

(i) been engaged in or performed;

(ii) been  approached,  induced  or  threatened  to

engage in or perform; or

10

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

(iii)

received, direct or indirect threats to engage
in or perform,

any  act  or  omission  which  constitutes  an  offence
under section 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8,

such person or person connected to a sport shall forthwith
disclose  such  information  in  writing,  in  person  or  by
electronic means to the Secretary or the Director of Sports or
the Unit appointed under section 21 of this Act.

(2)    Where  any  betting  operator  becomes  aware  of,  or
reasonably  suspects  any  unusual  betting  patterns  in  any
betting  carried  out  by  any  person,  such  betting  operator
shall forthwith disclose such information in writing, in person
or by electronic means to the Secretary or the Director of
Sports or to the Unit.

Secretary  or
Director  of
Sports  to  refer
information  to
the  Unit.

17.

(1) The Secretary or the Director of Sports, as the
case may be, shall, upon receipt of any information under
section  16,  refer  such  information  to  the  Unit,  for
investigation:

Provided however, that where such information discloses
the commission of an offence under section 70 of the Bribery
Act (Chapter 26), the Secretary or the Director of Sports, as
the  case  may  be,  shall  refer  such  information  to  the
Commission  to  Investigate  Allegations  of  Bribery  or
Corruption, for investigation and prosecution.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
Secretary or the Director of Sports may, on his own motion
refer any information relating to any offence under this Act
to the Unit, for investigation.

Disclosing
connections  with
betting  operators
to  the  Secretary
or  Director  of
Sports.

18.

(1) Any person connected to a sport shall disclose to
the Secretary or the Director of Sports all information relating
to such person’s personal or business interests, or any other
connections  with  any  betting  operator,  or  any  personal  or
business interests such person has relating to sports.

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

11

(2)   The Secretary or the Director of Sports, as the case
may be, shall, on a request made by the Unit, make available
to that Unit any information received by such Secretary or
Director of Sports under subsection (1), for the purpose of
any investigation of any offence under this Act.

PART  IV

INVESTIGATION AND PROSECUTION OF OFFENCES

19.

(1) Except as otherwise provided for by this Act, all
offences  under  this  Act  shall  be  investigated,  tried  or
otherwise  dealt  with  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
the Code of Criminal Procedure Act.

(2)  All investigations carried out by the Unit under this
Act shall be discreet except where the circumstances require
otherwise.

20. An  offence  under  Chapter  I  of  Part  II  of  this  Act
shall  be  a  cognizable  and  non-bailable  offence  within  the
meaning,  and  for  the  purposes,  of  the  Code  of  Criminal
Procedure Act.

21.

(1)  The  Minister  shall,  in  consultation  with  the
Minister assigned the Department of Police, appoint by Order
published in the Gazette, an independent, impartial Special
Investigations  Unit  (in  this  Act  referred  to  as  the  “Unit”)
consisting of such number of police officers not below the
rank  of  an  Assistant  Superintendent  of  Police,  as  may  be
determined  by  the  Minister,  for  conducting  investigations
in relation to an offence under this Act.

(2) The police officers to be appointed under subsection
(1) shall be nominated by the Inspector General of Police.

(3)  The  Minister  shall  appoint  the  seniormost
member from among the members of the Unit to be the Head
of the Unit.

Offences  under
this  Act  to  be
investigated
under  the
provisions  of  the
Code  of
Criminal
Procedure  Act.

An  offence
under  Chapter  I
of  Part  II  to  be  a
cognizable  and
non-bailable
offence.

Appointment  of
the    Special
Investigations
Unit.

12

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

(4) The term of office of any member of the Unit shall be
three years and a member of the Unit shall be eligible for
reappointment.

 (5) A member of the Unit may at any time, resign his
office  by  letter  addressed  to  the  Minister,  and  such
resignation shall be effective from the date on which it is
accepted by the Minister.

(6) The Minister may, if he considers it expedient to do
so, with reasons assigned therefor, remove any member of
the Unit from office.

(7) In the event of a vacancy occurring in the membership
of  the  Unit  as  a  result  of  the  death,  resignation,  removal
from  office  or  otherwise  of  any  member  of  the  Unit,  the
Minister shall, having regard to the provisions of subsection
(1), appoint  another person to fill such vacancy.

(8) Where another person is appointed to fill a vacancy
caused  by  death,  resignation,  removal  from  office  or
otherwise of any member of the Unit, the person so appointed
shall  hold  office  for  the  unexpired  period  of  the  term  of
office of the member of the Unit whom he succeeds.

(9)  Every  member  of  the  Unit  shall  be  paid  such
remuneration  as  may  be  determined  by  the  Minister  in
consultation  with  the  Minister  assigned  the  subject  of
Finance.

(10)  The  members  of  the  Unit,  in  the  exercise  and
performance of their powers and functions under this Act—

(a)

(b)

shall be subject to such conditions of appointment
as may be prescribed; and

in relation to any investigation under this Act, shall
not be under the direction, control, or supervision
of the Inspector General of Police:

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

13

Provided however, the Inspector General of Police shall
have power to exercise disciplinary control over, or to transfer
the members of the Unit.

(11)  The  Unit  shall  at  all  times  act  independently  and

impartially.

22.

(1)  The  Minister  shall,  prior  to  appointing  any
police  officer  as  a  member  to  the  Unit  under  section  21,
satisfy himself that such officer has no financial, personal or
other interest or relationship in relation to any matter which
is under investigation under this Act, as is likely to affect
prejudicially  the  discharging  of  such  officer’s  duties  as  a
member of the Unit.

(2) A member of the Unit shall disclose to the Minister
and the Inspector General of Police of any instance of conflict
of interest or relationship—

(a) prevailing at the time of such member’s  appointment

as a  member of the Unit; or

(b)

arising  or  likely  to  arise  in  the  course  of  any
investigation,  in  relation  to  any  matter  or  person
subject to an investigation by the Unit under this
Act.

23.

(1) The Unit shall—

(a) upon  receipt  of    any  information  under
section 16 or 17,  if it is satisfied that such
information  is  credible  and  that  such
information discloses material upon which
an  investigation  ought  to  be  conducted;
or

(b) on  its  motion,  if  the  Head  of  the  Unit  is
satisfied that there is prima facie evidence
of  the  commission  of  an  offence    under
this Act,

Disclosure  of
conflict  of
interest.

Investigation  of
offences  by  the
Unit.

14

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

conduct investigations as may be necessary for the purpose
of  institution  of  criminal  proceedings  in  respect  of  any
offence under this Act:

Provided  however,  that  where  such  information  or
evidence  discloses  the  commission  of  an  offence  under
section 70 of the Bribery Act (Chapter 26), the Unit shall
refer  such  information  or  evidence  to  the  Commission  to
Investigate  Allegations  of  Bribery  or  Corruption,  for
investigation  and  prosecution.

(2)    Upon  completion  of  an  investigation  under

subsection (1), the Head of the Unit shall—

(a) prepare  a  report  containing  the  findings  of  such

investigation;  and

(b) where the Unit finds that it has reasonable grounds
to suspect that an offence under this Act has been
committed, refer such report along with any other
documents  available  with  the  Unit  in  relation  to
such alleged offence, to the Attorney General for
consideration and prosecution; or

(c) where the investigation discloses the commission
of an offence under the Bribery Act, refer such report
to  the  Commission  to  Investigate  Allegations  of
Bribery  or  Corruption,  for  investigation  and
prosecution.

Powers  of  the
Unit.

24. For the purpose of conducting  any investigation of

an offence under this Act,  the Unit shall have power to—

(a) procure  and  receive  all  such  evidence,  written  or
oral, and to examine all such persons as the Unit
may think necessary or desirable to procure, receive
or examine;

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

15

(b)

(c)

(d)

require any person to attend before the Unit for the
purposes  of  being  examined  by  the  Unit  and  to
submit  answers  to  questions  raised  by  the  Unit,
relevant in the opinion of the Unit to the matters
under  investigation  by  way  of  an  affidavit  or,  if
necessary  administer  oath  or  affirmation  in
accordance  with  the  Oaths  or  Affirmations
Ordinance (Chapter 17);

summon  any  person  to  produce  any  data,
information,  document  or  other  thing  in  his
possession or control;

require  any  service  provider  to  produce  any
subscriber  information  or  traffic  data  in  the
possession or control of such service provider;

(e) direct by notice in writing the manager of any bank
to produce, within such time as may be specified in
the  notice,  any  book,  document  or  cheque  of  the
bank containing entries relating to any account of—

(i)

any  person  in  respect  of  whom  an
investigation of an offence under this Act is
conducted;

(ii)

the spouse or any child of such person;

(iii)

(iv)

a  company  of  which  such  person  is  a
director;

a trust in which such person has a beneficial
interest;

(v)

a firm of which such person is a partner,

or to produce as specified in that notice, certified
copies of such book, document, cheque or of any
entry  therein;

16

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

(f) notwithstanding  the  provisions  relating  to
confidentiality  of  information  contained  in  the
Inland  Revenue  Act,  No.  24  of  2017,  direct  by
notice  in  writing  the  Commissioner-General  of
Inland  Revenue  to  produce,  as  specified  in  the
notice,  all  information  available  to  such
Commissioner-General relating to the affairs of—

(i)

any  person  in  respect  of  whom  an
investigation of an offence under this Act is
conducted;  or

(ii)

the spouse or any child of such person,

and  to  produce,  as  specified  in  the  notice,  any
document  or  a  certified  copy  of  any  document
relating to such person, spouse or child which is in
the  possession  or  under  the  control  of  such
Commissioner-General;

(g) direct  any  person  in  respect  of  whom  an
investigation  of  an  offence  under  this  Act  is
conducted, to furnish an affidavit—

(i)

enumerating  all  movable  or  immovable
property owned or possessed at any time, or
at such time as may be specified by the Unit
by such person, or the spouse or any child
of such person and specifying the date on
which each of the properties so set out was
acquired, whether by way of purchase, gift,
bequest, inheritance or otherwise; and

(ii)

containing particulars of such other matters
which in the opinion of the Unit are relevant
to  the  investigation;

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

17

(h) direct any other person to furnish an affidavit—

(i)

enumerating  all  movable  or  immovable
property owned or possessed at any time, or
at such time as may be specified by the Unit,
by  such  person,  where  the  Unit  has
reasonable  grounds  to  believe  that  such
information  can  assist  an  investigation
conducted by the Unit; and

(ii)

containing particulars of such other matters
which in the opinion of the Unit are relevant
to an investigation conducted by the Unit;

(i) prohibit, under the authority of an Order  issued in
that  behalf  by  a  Magistrate,  on  application  made
for such purpose by the Unit—

(i)

any  person  in  respect  of  whom  an
investigation of an offence under this Act is
conducted;

(ii)

the spouse or any child of such person;

(iii)

(iv)

any  other  person  holding  any  property  in
trust for such first-mentioned person;

a  company  of  which  such  person  is  a
director; or

(v)

a firm in which such person is a partner,

from transferring the ownership of, or any interest
in, any movable or immovable property specified
in such Order, until such time the Order is revoked
by the Court;

18

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

(j)

require, under the authority of an Order  issued in
that  behalf  by  a  Magistrate,  on  application  made
for such purpose by the Unit—

(i)

(ii)

the  Controller  of  Immigration  and
Emigration  to  impound  the  passport  and
other  travel  documents  of  any  person  in
respect  of  whom  an  investigation  of  an
offence under this Act is conducted, for such
period not exceeding three months, as may
be specified in such Order;

any  police  officer  as  shall  be  specified  in
that Order, whether by name or by office, to
take all such steps as may be necessary to
prevent the departure from Sri Lanka of any
person in respect of whom an investigation
of an offence under this Act is conducted,
for such period not exceeding three months,
as may be specified in such Order; and

Institution  of
criminal
proceedings.

(k)

call or receive any data, information, document or
evidence  from  any  person,  government  or  non-
government institution or from any foreign agency.

25. Notwithstanding  anything  to  the  contrary  in  the
Code  of  Criminal  Procedure  Act  or  any  other  law,  the
Attorney General may institute criminal proceedings in the
High  Court  of  Sri  Lanka  in  respect  of  an  offence  under
Chapters I and II of Part II of this Act based on the material
collected in the course of an investigation conducted by the
Unit under section 23.

Unit  to  enter  and
search  premises
or  persons.

26.

(1)  Where  the  Unit  has    reasonable  grounds  to

suspect  that—

(a)

an offence under this Act is being committed or has
been  committed at any premises, and  evidence of

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

19

the commission of such   offence is to be found at
any premises or with any person; or

(b)

any  data,  information,  document  or    device
connected to the commission of any offence under
this Act is  to be found at any  premises or with any
person,

a member of the Unit or any person authorised by the Head
of the Unit may  enter and search such premises or any person
found on such premises in accordance with the provisions
of  the  Code  of  Criminal  Procedure  Act.  Such  member  or
person may obtain the assistance of police officers outside
the Unit to carry out such search.

(2)   A member of the Unit or any person authorised by the
Head  of  the  Unit  who  enters  and  search  any  premises  or
person under  subsection (1) may, in the manner provided
for by the Code of Criminal Procedure Act—

(a)

(b)

seize any device which is found on such premises
or  with  such  person  and  which  such  member  or
authorised  person  has  reasons  to  believe  to  be
evidence  of  the  commission  of  an  offence  under
this Act;

seize data, information or document which is found
on  such  premises  or  with  such  person  and  which
such member or authorised person has reasons to
believe  to  be  evidence  of  the  commission  of  an
offence under this Act, or obtain any copy thereof;
or

(c)

arrest any person found on such premises who such
member or authorised person has reasons to believe
to be connected with the commission of an offence
under this Act.

20

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

(3) A member of the Unit or any person authorised by the
Head of the Unit making an arrest without a warrant of any
person suspected of committing an offence under this Act,
shall,  without  unnecessary  delay  and  within  twenty  four
hours  of  such  arrest,  exclusive  of  the  time  taken  for  the
journey  from  the  place  of  arrest  to  the  presence  of  the
Magistrate,  produce  such  person  before  the  Magistrate  of
the Court nearest to the place such person is arrested.

(4)  Where,  by  virtue  of  this  section,  a  person  has  any
power to enter into any premises such person may use such
force as is reasonably necessary for the purpose of exercising
such power.

(5)    Whenever  it  is  necessary  to  cause  a  woman  to  be
searched the search shall be made by another woman with
strict regard to decency.

Preservation  of
information.

27.

(1)  Where  a  member  of  the  Unit  or  any  person

authorised by the Head of the Unit is satisfied—

(a)

(b)

that any information or  data stored in any electronic
device  is reasonably required for the purposes of
an investigation under this Act; and

that  there  is  a  risk  that  such  information  or  data
may  be  lost,  destroyed,  modified  or  rendered
inaccessible,

such  member  or  the  authorized  person  may  by  written
notice require the person in control of such electronic device
to ensure that the information or data be preserved for such
period  not  exceeding  thirty  days  as  may  be  specified  in
such  notice.

(2)  On  an  application  made  to  a  Magistrate  having
jurisdiction, the period for which the information or data is
to  be  preserved  may  be  extended  for  such  further  period,
which in the aggregate shall not exceed ninety days.

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

21

28. A member of the Unit or any person authorised by
the Head of the Unit who conducts any search, inspection or
does any other thing in the course of an investigation of an
offence under this Act-

Seizure  of  any
device  not  to
hamper  its
ordinary  use.

(a)

shall  make  every  endeavor  to  ensure  that  the
ordinary  course  of  legitimate  business  for  which
any  device  which  is  being  searched  or  inspected
may  be  used  is  not  hampered  by  such  search,
inspection  or  investigation;  and

(b)

shall  not  seize  such  device  if  such  seizure  will
prejudice  the  conduct  of  such  ordinary  course  of
business, unless-

(i)

(ii)

it  is  not  possible  to  conduct  the  search  or
inspection on the premises where such device
is located; or

seizure of such device is essential to prevent
the commission or continuance of the offence
or  to  obtain  custody  of  any  information  or
data  which  would  otherwise  be  lost,
destroyed, modified or rendered inaccessible.

Issuing  a  list  of
seized
documents,  &c.

29.   Where any data, information, documents, or devices
have been seized or rendered inaccessible during any search
or inspection in the course of an investigation of an offence
under  this  Act,  the  member  of  the  Unit  or  the  person
authorised by the Unit conducting such search or inspection
shall  issue  a  complete  list  of  such  data,  information,
documents or devices including the date and time of such
seizure or of rendering it inaccessible to the owner or the
person  in  charge  of  such  data,  information,  documents  or
devices.

30.  (1)  Every offence under Chapter I of Part II of this Act
shall be triable by the High Court of Sri Lanka established
under Article 154P of the Constitution.

High  Court  to
try  offences
under  Chapter  I
of  Part  II.

22

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

(2) Where an offence under Chapter I of Part II of this
Act is committed outside Sri Lanka, such High Court shall
have the jurisdiction to try such offence as if such offence is
committed in Sri Lanka if –

(a)  the person who committed such offence is

present in Sri Lanka;

(b)

the person who committed such offence is a
citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)

the person in relation to whom  the offence
is  alleged  to  have  been  committed  is  a
citizen of Sri Lanka; or

(d) such  offence  is  committed  on  board  an
aircraft or vessel while in the air space of Sri
Lanka or the territorial waters of Sri Lanka.

(3)

 Where in any proceedings in relation to any offence
under this Act, any question including the exercise of any
power arises in respect of which no provision or adequate
provision has been made by or under this Act or any other
enactment, the High Court shall have power to make such
Orders and give such directions in so far as the same shall
not  conflict  or  be  inconsistent  with  any  provision  of  this
Act.

PART  V

GENERAL

Duty  to  maintain
secrecy.

31.    The Secretary, Director of Sports, every member of
the Unit or every officer, employee or other person appointed
to assist the Secretary or Director of Sports or the Unit under
this  Act  shall,  before  entering  upon  the  duties  of  such
Secretary, Director of Sports, member, officer, employee or
person,  sign  a  declaration  pledging    not  to  disclose  any
information received by him or coming to his possession or
knowledge in the exercise and discharge of his powers and
functions under this Act,  except-

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

23

(a)

for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions
of this Act;

(b) when required under any  provision of any other

written law; or

(c) when required to do so by a court of law.
.

32.

(1)  Every  service  provider  from  whom  any
information  or  data  has  been  requested  or  obtained  under
this Act or  any person to whom a written notice has been
issued for the preservation of any information or  data under
section 27 shall maintain strict confidentiality in relation to
such information or data and the fact that such information
or  data  has  been  requested,  obtained  or  required  to  be
preserved,  and  shall  not  make  any  disclosure  in  regard  to
such matters other than with lawful authority.

(2) A  service  provider  shall  not  be  held  liable  under
the civil or criminal law for the disclosure of any information
or data for the purposes of an investigation under this Act.

33.

(1) The secretary of the Board of Management of
every National Association of Sports recognized under this
Act shall maintain a code of ethics, subject to the directions
of the Secretary, governing the conduct of   persons connected
to such sport for the purpose of ensuring the maintenance of
discipline and prevention of match fixing, corruption, illegal
manipulation and illegal betting in such sport.

(2)

Every person connected to a sport shall be bound
by  the  provisions  of  the  code  of  ethics  of  the  respective
sport.

(3)    Any  person  connected  to  a  sport  who  acts  in
contravention of the provisions of the code of ethics of such
sport shall also be liable to such sanctions as may be provided
for in such code of ethics.

Service
providers  to
maintain
confidentiality.

Maintenance  of
code  of  ethics.

Reward  Fund.

Protection  for
acts  done  in
good  faith.

24

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

34.

(1) There shall be established a Reward Fund under
the control and administration of the Secretary for the purpose
of rewarding persons who provide information that results
in  the  detection  of  any  offence  committed  by  any  person
under  this  Act  and  the  prosecution  of  such  offence.  The
members of the Unit shall not be entitled to any reward from
the Reward Fund.

(2)

There shall be paid into the Reward Fund all such
sums of money as may be voted upon from time to time by
Parliament for the purpose.

(3)

The Minister may prescribe the manner in which
rewards shall be paid to persons who provide information.
The amount of reward shall be determined on the basis of
detection,  institution  of  proceedings  and  successful
prosecution, of an offence.

(4)

The Secretary shall cause proper books of accounts
to  be  kept  of  the  income  and  expenditure  of  the  Reward
Fund and all other financial transactions in relation to the
Reward Fund.

(5)

The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
shall apply to, and in relation to, the audit of the accounts of
the Reward Fund.

35. No member of the Unit or any officer, employee or
other person   appointed to assist the Unit for the purposes of
this Act, shall be liable in any suit or other legal proceedings
for any lawful act which is done or purported to be done in
good faith by such member, officer, employee or person as
the case may be, in pursuance of the powers conferred by or
under this Act, or for the purpose of carrying out the provisions
of this Act.

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

25

36. Where there is an extradition arrangement in force
between the Government of Sri Lanka and the Government
of any other State, such arrangement shall be deemed, for
the purpose of the Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, to include
provisions for the extradition in respect of an offence under
Chapter I of Part II of this Act.

Provisions
relating  to
extradition
arrangements.

37. The  Extradition  Law,  No.  8  of  1977  is  hereby
amended by the insertion immediately before Part B of the
Schedule to that Law, of the following:-

Amendment  of
the  Extradition
Law,  No.  8  of
1977.

“(  )   An offence within the meaning of the Prevention
of  Offences  relating  to  Sports  Act,    No.  24  of
2019.”.

38. Notwithstanding  anything  contained  in  the
Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, an offence under Chapter I
of Part II of this Act shall, for the purposes only of extradition
under that Law, be deemed not to be a fiscal offence, or an
offence of a political nature, or an offence connected with a
political offence or an offence inspired by political motives.

Interpretation  in
relation  to  the
Extradition  Law.

39.

(1) The Minister may make regulations under this
Act in respect of all matters which are required by this Act to
be prescribed or in respect of which regulations are required
or authorized to be made under this Act.

Regulations.

(2)

In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations in respect of the measures to be taken for
the  purpose  of  preventing,  detecting  and  investigating
offences under this Act.

(3)

Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  shall  be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the  date  of  publication,  or  on  such  later  date  as  may  be
specified therein.

26

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

(4)

(a)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  shall,
within three months after its publication in the Gazette, be
brought before Parliament for approval.

(b)  Any  regulation  which  is  not  so  approved  shall  be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval,
but  without  prejudice  to  anything  previously  done
thereunder.

(5) Notification  of  the  date  on  which  any  regulation
made by the Minister is deemed to be so rescinded shall be
published in the Gazette.

Interpretation.

40.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -

  “betting  operator”  means  any  company  or
undertaking  that  promotes,  brokers,
arranges  or  conducts  any  form  of  betting
activity in relation to  any sport or sporting
event  and  includes  any  director,  partner,
officer, employee, servant and agent of such
company or undertaking;

“Board of Management” means the body which is in
charge  of 
the  management  and
administration of the affairs of any National
Association of Sports;

“child”  means  a  male  or  a  female  under  the  age  of

eighteen;

“Code of Criminal Procedure Act” means the Code of

Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979;

“Commissioner-General  of  Inland  Revenue”  means
the  Commissioner-General  of  Inland
Revenue  appointed  under  section    97  of
the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

27

“Commission  to  Investigate  Allegations  of  Bribery
or Corruption” means the Commission to
Investigate  Allegations  of  Bribery  or
Corruption established by section 2 of  the
Commission to Investigate Allegations of
Bribery or Corruption Act, No. 19 of 1994;

“computer  system”  means  a  computer  or  group  of
inter-connected  computers,  including  the
internet;

“Controller of Immigration and   Emigration” means
the    Controller  of  Immigration  and
Emigration  appointed  under  section  4  of
the Immigrants and Emigrants Act (Chapter
351);

“Director  of  Sports”  means  the  Director  of  Sports
appointed  under  section  3  of  the  Sports
Law, No. 25 of 1973;

“device” includes an electronic device;

“document” includes an electronic record;

“electronic  device”  means  any  device  used  for
communication  or  for  processing  or
transmission of information or data;

“electronic means” includes e-mail, fax, short message
service  (sms),  fixed  telephone,  mobile
phone and any online method;

“electronic record” means information, record or data
generated,  stored,  received  or  sent  in  an
electronic  form  or  microfilm,  or  by  any
other similar means;

  “information”  includes  data,  text,  images,  sound,
codes, database or microfilm;

28

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

“Minister”  means  the  Minister  assigned  the  subject
of  Sports  under  Article  43  or  44  of  the
Constitution;

“National Association of Sports” means any National
Association of Sports established in terms
of the Sports Law, No. 25 of 1973;

“person connected to  a sport”  means-

(a) any  member  or  an  employee  of  the
National  Olympic  Committee  of    Sri
Lanka established by section 18 of the
Sports Law, No. 25 of 1973;

(b)    any  person  who  is  a  member  or  an
employee of any National Association
of Sports;

(c) any person or body of persons being
an  affiliated  member,  club,  team,
association or league of any National
Association of Sports;

(d) any  player  who  participates  in  any
sport,  sporting  event,  international
game,  tournament  or  championship
organized,  held,  convened  or
  by  any  National
authorized 
Association  of  Sports  nationally  or
internationally;

(e)

in the case of a minor player who is a
member  of  any  National  Association
of  Sports,  such  player’s  parents,
guardians or agents; and

(f)

any person who is an official, selector,
sports  manager,  committee  member,
masseur,
trainer, 
coach, 

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

29

physiotherapist,  medical  official,
paramedic, umpire, match adjudicator,
match  referee,    curator,  member  of
support  staff,  venue  staff  or  ground
staff,  sports  associate  and  a  sponsor
associated with any sport or sporting
event;

“player” means any person who participates in any
sport  or  sporting  event  at  school,  club,
provincial,  national  or  international  level;

“premises” includes any vehicle,vessel or aircraft;

“prescribed” means prescribed by regulations made

under this Act;

“Secretary” means the Secretary to the Ministry of
the Minister assigned the subject of Sports
under Article 43 or 44 of the Constitution;

“service provider” means-

(a) a  public  or  private  entity  which
provides the ability for its subscribers
to  communicate  by  means  of  a
computer system or electronic system
or by any other means; and

(b) any  other  entity  that  processes  or
stores computer data or information on
behalf of that entity or its customers;

“sport” includes any form of sport, game, pastime,
physical  training,  body  building  and
exercise  which  is  recognized  by  the
Secretary as a sport for the purposes of the
Sports Law, No. 25 of 1973;

30

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

“sporting  event”  includes  a  match,  game,
competition,  race  or  any  event  connected
with  any  sport,  whether  at  national  or
international  level;

“subscriber  information”  means  any  information
contained in the form of computer data or
any  other  form  that  is  held  by  a  service
provider,  relating  to  subscribers  of  its
services; and

“traffic data” means data—

(a)  that  relates  to  the  attributes  of  a
communication  by  means  of  a
computer system;

(b) which  is  generated  by  a  computer
system  that  is  part  of  a  service
provider;  and

(c) which shows communications origin,
destination,  route,  time,  data,  size,
duration  or  details  of  subscriber
information.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency.

41.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Prevention of Offences relating to Sports
Act, No. 24 of 2019

31

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

