PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

LOCAL  AUTHORITIES  ELECTIONS  (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.  30  OF  2023

[Certified on 17th of  November, 2023]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 17, 2023

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

WS 6
P L 014008
06.09.  2023

Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)
 Act, No. 30 of 2023

1

[Certified on 17th of November, 2023]

L.D.—O. 44/2022

AN ACT TO AMEND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS ORDINANCE
(CHAPTER 262)

BE it  enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Local  Authorities

Short  title

Elections (Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 2023.

2. Section  28  of  the  Local  Authorities  Elections
Ordinance  (Chapter  262)  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
“principal enactment”) is hereby amended as follows:-

Amendment  of
section  28  of
Chapter  262

(1)

in subsection (2) of that section-

(a) by the substitution for the words, “shall consist
of the number  of candidates of whom” of the
words,    “shall  consist  of  the  number    of
candidates of whom not less than twenty-five
per centum of the  total number of candidates
nominated in both the First Nomination Paper
and the Additional Nomination Paper shall be
youth candidates and of whom,”; and

(b) by the substitution for the words, “of such local
authority, substantially in the Forms set out in
the First Schedule, setting out the names-” of
the  words,  “of  such  local  authority.  The
nomination  papers  submitted  by  every
recognized  political  party  or    independent
group  in  respect  of  all  wards  of  any  local
authority  shall  be  substantially  in  the  Forms
set  out  in  the  First  Schedule,  setting  out  the
names-”;

2

Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)
 Act, No. 30 of 2023

(2) by the repeal of subsection (2A) of that section and
the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following
subsection:-

“(2A)  The  Commissioner  shall  by  notice
published  in  the  Gazette,  specify  the  minimum
number  of  youth  candidates  to  be  nominated  in
total  in  both  the  First  Nomination  Paper  and  the
Additional  Nomination  Paper  and  the  minimum
number of women candidates to be nominated in
the  First  Nomination  Paper  and  the  Additional
Nomination Paper as referred to in subsection (2),
in respect of all wards of each local authority. Where-

(a)

(b)

the  total  number  of  youth  candidates  to
be  nominated  is  such  that  not  less  than
twenty-five per centum of the total number
of candidates nominated in both the First
Nomination  Paper  and  the  Additional
Nomination Paper; and

the total number of women candidates to
be nominated is such that not less than ten
per  centum  of  the  total  numbers  of
members to be elected and returned in the
First Nomination Paper, and not less than
fifty  per  centum  of  the  total  number  of
candidates  nominated  in  the  Additional
Nomination Paper,

would be an integer and fraction, the integer shall
be deemed to be the number required for the purpose
of this section.”;

(3) by the insertion immediately after subsection (2A)

thereof of the following new subsection:-

Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)
 Act, No. 30 of 2023

3

“(2AA) For  the  avoidance  of  doubt  it  is  hereby
declared  that  the  total  number  of  youth  candidates
referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection (2A) may
include male candidates and female candidates.”; and

(4) by the repeal of subsections (2D) and (2E) of that

section.

3. Section  31  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph (f) of subsection (1) of
that  section  and  the  substitution  therefor  of  the  following
paragraph:-

Amendment  of
section  31  of  the
principal
enactment

“(f) that does not contain the total number of women
and  youth  candidates  as  required  to  be
nominated under subsection (2A) of section 28
of this Ordinance.”.

4.

In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

4

Local Authorities Elections (Amendment)
 Act, No. 30 of 2023

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

