THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

Part II of  July 19, 2024

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 19.07.2024)

PROTECTION  OF  OCCUPANTS

A

BILL

to  prevent  a  landlord  from  ejecting  persons  from  occupation  of  a
premises; and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental
thereto

Ordered to be published by the Minister of  Justice, Prison Affairs and
Constitutional  Reforms

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Protection of Occupants

1

L.D. – O. 64/2023

AN ACT TO PREVENT A LANDLORD FROM EJECTING PERSONS FROM
OCCUPATION OF A PREMISES; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.  This Act may be cited as the Protection of Occupants

Short  Title

Act, No.    of 2024.

5

2.  The provisions of this Act shall apply to a person who-

Application
of  the  Act

(a)

is in lawful occupation of a premises; and

(b) has  been  in  undisturbed  and  uninterrupted
occupation of such premises for a period of more
than  three  months,  prior  to  the  eventualities
specified under section 3, 4 or 5,

10

in this Act referred to as the “occupant”.

PART I

SAFEGUARDS AFFORDED TO OCCUPANTS

3.    The  landlord  of  any  premises,  either  by  himself  or

15

through any other person, shall not-

(a) discontinue or withhold any amenity or facility
or  any  essential  supply  or  utility  service
previously provided to the occupant; or

Landlord  not
to
discontinue
amenities  or
facilities

2

Protection of Occupants

(b)

refuse,  withhold,  fail  to  repair  or  maintain  in
proper condition, or refuse to grant permission to
repair  or  maintain  in  proper  condition,  any
essential  supply  or  utility  service  previously
provided  to  the  occupant.

4.    The  landlord  of  any  premises,  or  any  other  person
authorised  by  the  landlord  shall  not,  either  by  himself  or
through  any  other  person,  directly  or  indirectly,  damage,
demolish or tamper with the premises, in order to induce or
compel an occupant to vacate the premises.

Landlord  not
to  damage
premises

5.    The  landlord  of  any  premises  or  any  other  person
authorised  by  the  landlord  shall  not,  either  by  himself  or
through  any  other  person,  eject  or  cause  to  eject  the
occupant  from  the  premises  or  a  part  of  the  premises  in
contravention  of  the  terms  and  conditions  of  any  lease
agreement or tenancy agreement entered into between the
landlord and the occupant in terms of the relevant written
law, or a decree or an order of a competent court.

An  occupant
not  to  be
ejected
except  on  an
order  of  a
court

5

10

15

PART II

20

INSTITUTION OF AN ACTION FOR RELIEF

6. (1)  Where the  landlord of any premises (in this Act
referred to as the "respondent") either by himself or through
any other person, directly or indirectly, commits any one or
more acts or omissions referred to in section  3, 4 or 5, the
aggrieved occupant of such premises (in this Act referred to
as  the  "petitioner")  may  institute  an  action  in  the  Court
having jurisdiction within one month of the commission or
omission of the act, by presenting a petition supported by
an affidavit setting out the grounds on which the action is
based together with any other relevant material, seeking an
order for one or more of the following reliefs:-

25

30

Institution  of
action  by  the
occupant
against  the
landlord

Protection of Occupants

3

(a)

(b)

5

to  restore  the  amenities,  facilities,  essential
supplies or utility services or to grant permission
to repair and maintain such amenities, facilities,
essential  supplies  or  utility  services  in  a  proper
condition;

to prevent the respondent from using or threatening
to use any force or violence, or from inflicting or
threatening  to  inflict  any  harm,  damage  or  loss
upon or against the occupant of such premises;

10

(c)

to  prevent  the  respondent  from  damaging,
demolishing or tampering with the premises;

(d)  to restore the petitioner to vacant and undisturbed

possession of the premises; or

(e)

any other relief as may be determined by the Court.

15

20

(2)  In addition to any order seeking relief specified in
subsection  (1),  the  petitioner  may  seek  interim  relief  to
maintain the status quo of the premises and to prevent the
respondent  from  committing  any  wrongful  act  in
contravention of the provisions of section 3, 4 or 5 or any
such wrongful act that would render the final judgement in
the action, nugatory.

7. (1) Upon an action being instituted under section 6, if
the Court is satisfied on the evidence exhibited or adduced
that  the  material  facts  of  the  petition  are  prima  facie
established, and is of the opinion that the petitioner is entitled
to any one or more of the reliefs which he has prayed for,
then the Court shall make-

25

Hearing  of
the  petition
by  the  Court

4

Protection of Occupants

(a) an  order  nisi,  conditioned  to  take  effect,  in  the
event the respondent does not show cause against
it, on a day specified by the order; or

5

(b) an  interlocutory  order  specifying  a  day  for  the
determination  of  the  matter  of  the  petition,  and
intimating  that  the  respondent  will  be  heard  in
opposition to the petition if he appears before the
Court for that purpose on the day so specified.

10

(2)    The  date  referred  to  in  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of
subsection (1) shall be a date not more than fourteen days
from the date of delivery of the relevant order.

(3)  The provisions of Chapter XXIV of the Civil Procedure
Code  shall,  mutatis  mutandis,  apply  to  any  proceedings
commenced under this section.

15

20

(4) (a) Any application for an order under this Act shall
be heard and determined expeditiously, and the Court shall
complete the hearing within three months from the date of
the  petition  on  being  satisfied  only  of  the  content  of  the
affidavit  and  the  evidence  exhibited  or  adduced  with  the
petition.

(b)  Where  the  respondent  requests  to  be  heard  in
opposition  by  way  of  a  statement  of  objection,  the  Court
shall complete the hearing not later than nine months from
the date of the statement of objection.

25

30

8. Where the respondent appears before the Court or moves
to be heard in opposition in terms of the provisions of section
7 and the Court determines that there is sufficient cause as
to why the order nisi should not take effect, the Court may
order  such  costs,  reliefs  and  expenses  claimed  for  by  the
respondent as justice may demand.

Orders  made
in  matters
heard  in
opposition

Protection of Occupants

5

9.  (1)  Where  the  Court  makes  an  order  nisi  for  the
restoration of any amenities, facilities, essential supplies or
utility services in any premises, the Court may make further
order in the same order or in a subsequent order that if the
respondent fails to comply with such order nisi within the
period specified in such order, such order nisi or subsequent
order shall be executed in such manner as may be specified
therein.

Failure  to
comply  with
an  order  to
restore
amenities,
&c

(2) Where the respondent fails to comply with such order
nisi,  the  said  order  shall  be  executed  in  such  manner  as
specified  in  such  order  nisi  or  subsequent  order,  ex  mero
motu or on application of the petitioner to grant the order
nisi to be made final.

10.  (1)  Where  the  Court  orders  the  restoration  of  the
petitioner into vacant possession of the premises, the Court
shall forthwith direct the Fiscal to restore the petitioner into
vacant possession of the premises referred to in the order by
ejecting all those who are in occupation of the premises.

Restoration
of  the
petitioner
into  vacant
possession  of
the  premises

(2)  Where  the  Fiscal  is  resisted  or  obstructed  by  the
respondent or any other person, in the execution of the final
order restoring the petitioner into vacant possession of the
premises,  the  Fiscal  shall,  within  fourteen  days  of  such
resistance or obstruction, report such resistance or obstruction
to the Court in such form as specified in the Schedule to this
Act, and the Court shall thereupon issue a notice against the
person resisting or obstructing requiring him to show cause
within fourteen days from the date of such notice as to why
he should not be dealt with for contempt of Court occasioned
by such resistance or obstruction.

5

10

15

20

25

30

(3) (a) Where, after the petitioner is restored into vacant
possession,  the  petitioner  is  hindered  or  ousted  from  the
possession of the premises by the respondent or any other

6

Protection of Occupants

person  within  a  period  of  one  year  and  one  day  from  the
date of possession of the premises,  the petitioner may, at
any time within one month from the date of such  hindrance
or ouster, make a complaint thereon to the Court by a petition
in  which  the  respondent  or    other  person    hindering  or
ousting  him shall be named respondents.

(b)  The  Court  shall,  upon  receipt  of  a  petition  under
paragraph (a), serve a copy of such petition on the parties
named therein as respondents and require them to show cause
within fourteen days from the date of such order as to why
they  should  not  be  dealt  with  for  contempt  of  Court
occasioned by such hindrance or ouster.

5

10

(4) On the hearing of such report made by the Fiscal or
petition filed by the petitioner under subsection (2) or (3), if
the Court is satisfied –

15

(a)

that  the  resistance,  obstruction,  hindrance  or
ouster  complained  of  was  occasioned  by  the
respondent to the original petition or by any other
person at his instigation or on his behalf;

20

(b)

that  the  resistance,  obstruction,  hindrance  or
ouster complained of was occasioned by a person
other than the respondent to the original petition,
and  that  the  claim  of  such  person  to  be  in
possession of the premises, whether on his own
account or on account of some person other than
the respondent to the original petition, is not in
good faith; or

(c)

that the claim made by the respondent or the person
who      occasioned  the  resistance,  obstruction,
hindrance  or  ouster,  if  any,  has  not  been
established,

the  Court  shall  procced  to  take  action  as  set  out  in
subsection (5).

25

30

Protection of Occupants

7

(5)  The Court shall, pursuant to subsection (4) -

(a) direct  the  Fiscal  to  restore  possession  of  the

premises, to the petitioner forthwith; and

(b) punish  the  respondent  or  any  other  person  who
occasioned the resistance, obstruction, hindrance
or ouster as referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
subsection (4) for contempt of court with a fine
not  exceeding  rupees  five  hundred  thousand  or
with  an  imprisonment  for  a  term  not  exceeding
one year or with both such fine and imprisonment:

Provided however, the provisions of section
303 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.
15 of 1979 shall not be applicable in respect of an
offender on whom a sentence of imprisonment is
imposed under this paragraph.

5

10

15

(6) In any case involving a false claim under paragraph
(c) of subsection (4), the offender shall, on conviction, be
liable to a fine not exceeding rupees five hundred thousand.

20

(7) In any proceedings under this section, the Court may
make  an  order  as  to  the  costs,  and  charges  and  expenses
incurred for the hearing and the issue of writ, as the Court
shall deem meet.

11. (1) The execution of any final order made by the Court
shall not be stayed unless there is a specific stay order made
by a competent higher court under section 12.

25

Execution  of
final  order
not  to  be
stayed

(2)  An order for the stay of execution shall not be made
by such higher court without notice to the petitioner in whose
favour the Court made the final order.

8

Protection of Occupants

12.   Any person aggrieved by a final order made under
the provisions of this Act may prefer an appeal in terms of
the provisions of subsection (1) of section 754 of the Civil
Procedure Code.

Appeals

5

13. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires –

Interpretation

“Civil Procedure Code” means the Civil Procedure Code

(Chapter 101);

“Court” means the District Court having jurisdiction;

“eject” in relation to the occupant of any premises, means
to deprive, by using direct or indirect methods, such
occupant of his right to use and occupy the whole
or  any  part  of  such  premises  in  contravention  of
the  provisions  the  lease  agreement  or  tenancy
agreement entered into between the landlord and
the  occupant;

“essential  supplies  or  utility  services”  includes  supply
of  water,  electricity,  sewerage,  cooking  gas  and
lights  including  lights  in  passages  and  on
staircases,  lifts  and  conservancy  or  sanitary
services;

“landlord” in relation to any premises, means the person
entitled to receive the rent of the premises from an
occupant,  and  includes  an  occupant  who  lets  the
premises or any part thereof to a subtenant, with
the written consent of the original landlord;

“lessee” shall have the same meaning as in the Recovery
of Possession of Premises Given on Lease Act, No.
1 of 2023;

10

15

20

25

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsisteney

Protection of Occupants

9

“occupation”  in  relation  to  a  premises  or  any  part  of  a
premises, means having entered into occupation of
such  premises  as  a  lessee  or  tenant  under  a  lease
agreement or tenancy agreement with the landlord,
continues to be in occupation with the consent of
the landlord for a particular period of time; and

5

“possession” and “premises” shall have the same meaning
as in the Recovery of Possession of Premises Given
on Lease Act, No. 1 of 2023.

10

14. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

SCHEDULE

FORM

[Section  10(2]

REPORT  TO  COURT  BY  THE  FISCAL  OF  RESISTANCE  AND
OBSTRUCTION

To  the  Judge  of  the  District  Court  of  ………………

I,  ……………………………….,  the  Fiscal  of  the  District  Court  of
…………,  do  hereby  report  to  the  court  that  on  the  ……….  day  of
…………20**,  ……………………..    (name  of  the  respondent  and/  or
other  person  who  caused  resistance  and/  or  obstruction)  of
………………………………  caused  resistance  and/or  obstruction  to
me  by  ………………………………….…………………………………
(describe  the  manner  in  which  the  resistance  and/or  obstruction  was
caused),  while  executing  the  final  order  of  the  court  made  on  the
…….day  of  20**  to  restore    ……………………………………..(name
of  the  petitioner )  into    vacant  possession  of  the  premises  referred  to  in
the  Schedule  hereto.

The  Schedule  of  the  premises  above  referred  to

              (signed)  ……………………………
                                                                       (Name of the Fiscal)

On  this  ……………….  day  of  ……………………….,  20**.

10

Protection of Occupants

Department  of  Government  Printing

