THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of May 24, 2019

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 27.05.2019)

PLASTICS AND RUBBER INSTITUTE OF SRI LANKA
(INCORPORATION)

(Private Member’s Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Plastics and Rubber Institute of Sri Lanka

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. (Dr.) Thusitha Wijemanne, M.P. for
Kegalle District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Plastics and Rubber Institute of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)

1

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE PLASTICS AND RUBBER INSTITUTE OF
SRI LANKA

WHERE  A  Foundation  called  and  known  as  the  “Plastics
and  Rubber  Institute  of  Sri  Lanka”  has  heretofore  been
formed in Sri Lanka the purpose of effectually carrying out
and transacting all objects and matters connected with the
said  foundation  according  to  the  rules  agreed  to  be  its
members:

Preamble.

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  foundation  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such  application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

5

10

1.    This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Plastics  and  Rubber

Short    title.

15

Institute of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2019.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Plastics
and Rubber Institute of Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Institution”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession under the name and style of “Plastics
and Rubber Institute of Sri Lanka” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued and
have full power and authority to have and use a common seal
and alter the same at its pleasure.

20

25

Incorporation
of  the
Plastics  and
Rubber
Institute  of
Sri  Lanka.

3. The  General  objects  for  which  the  Corporation  is

constituted are hereby declared to be—

(1)

to  commit  to  excellence  in  providing  education,
technical  training,  manpower  development  in  the

General
Objects  of
the
Corporation.

2

Plastics and Rubber Institute of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)

polymer  industry  in  Sri  Lanka  and  driven  by  the
Private Sector; and

(2)

to provide opportunities to those who are engaged
in the polymer industry to interact with others by
way  of  participating  in  workshops,  seminars  and
discussions  conducted  by  Plastics  and  Rubber
Institute of Sri Lanka.

4.

(1) The management of the affairs of the Corporation
shall, subject to the rules of the Corporation, be administered
by Committee of Management consisting of not more than
eleven  office  bearers  inclusive  of  the  Chairman  of  the
Corporation,  Secretary,  Treasurer  and  such  number  of
members  as  may  be  provided  or  in  rules  and  elected  in
accordance therewith.

Management
of  the  affairs
of  the
Corporation.

5

10

15

20

(2) The first Committee of Management shall consist of
the members of the Committee of Management holding office
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of  this  Act  and  shall  continue  to  hold  office  until  a  new
Committee  of  Management  is  elected  in  accordance  with
the rules made under section 6 of this Act.

5.  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act  and  any  other
written  law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform  and  execute  all  such  acts,  matters  and  things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of tham, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise moneys with or without security, to raise funds and
receive grants, to invest the funds of the Corporation and to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants required
for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.

25

30

General
Powers  of  the
Corpration.

6.  (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time,  at  any  General  Meeting  of  the  members  and  by  a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this

Rules  of  the
Corporation.

Plastics and Rubber Institute of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)

3

Act or any other written law, on all or any of the following
matters:—

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

the Classification of members, and the admission,
withdrawal, expulsion of members of resignation;

the election of office bearers, the resignation from,
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and their powers, conduct and duties;

the election of the members of the Committees of
the Management and its powers, duties and conduct
and the terms of office of members of the Committee
of Management;

the conduct of duties and functions and conduct of
the officers, agents and servants of the Corporation;

the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and  holding  of  meetings  of  the  Committee  of
Management, the times, places, notices and agenda
of  such  meetings,  the  quorum  thereof  and  the
conduct of business thereat;

(f)

the administrations and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and

(g)

the management of the affairs of the Corporation,
and the accomplishment of its objects.

5

10

15

20

25

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).

(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to

the tules of the Corporation.

30

7. All debts and liabilities of the Institution on the day
preceding  the  date  of  commencement  of  this  act,  shall  be
paid  and  discharge  by  the  Corporation  hereby  constituted
and all debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Institution on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purposes of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Institution.

Fund  of  the
Corporation.

4

Plastics and Rubber Institute of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)

8. 

(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys  heretofore  or  hereafter  to  be  received  by  way  of
gifts,  testamentary  disposition,  bequest,  donation,
subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on account
of  the  Corporation  shall  be  deposited  to  the  credit  of  the
Corporation  in  one  of  more  banks  as  the  Board  of
Management shall determine.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Trust fund, all sums of
money required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

9.  Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall  be  able  and  capable  in  law  to  acquire  and  hold  any
property both movable and immovable, which may become
vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise and all such property shall be held
by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject
to the rules of the Corporation made under section 06, with
full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of the same.

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable.

10. 

If  upon  the  dissolution  of  the  Corporation  there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be  given  or  transferred  to  some  other  institution  or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and  which,  is  or  are  by  its  or  their  rules  prohibited  from
distributing any income or property among their members.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution.

5

10

15

20

25

11. 

(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be

30

the calendar year.

Audit  and
accounts.

(2)  The  Corporation  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to  be
kept  of  its  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.

Plastics and Rubber Institute of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)

5

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a

qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.

(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means—

(a) An  individual  who,  being  a  member  of  the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or  any  other  institute  established  by  law,
possesses  a  certificate  to  practice  as  an
Accountant,  issued  by  the  Council  of  such
Institute; or

(b) A  firm  of  Accountants,  each  of  the  resident
partners of which, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any
other  institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued
by the Council of such Institute.

12.  The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any  instrument  whatsoever  except  in  the  presence  of  the
Chairman/’Managing Director or two other members of the
Corporation  as  may  decided  by  the  committee  of
Management, who shall sign their names to the instrument
in  token  of  their  presence  and  such  signing  shall  be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation.

5

10

15

20

13.  Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect  the  rights  of  the  Republic  or  of  anybody  politic,  or
corporate.

25

14. 

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic  and
others.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency.

6

Plastics and Rubber Institute of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation)

Department  of  Government  Printing

