PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

REGISTRATION  OF  ELECTORS
(AMENDMENT)  ACT,  No.  22  OF  2021

[Certified on 13th of October, 2021]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 15, 2021

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Registration of Electors (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 2021

1

[Certified on 13th of October, 2021]

L.D.—O. 26/2018

AN ACT TO AMEND THE REGISTRATION OF ELECTORS
ACT, NO. 44 OF 1980

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:–

1. This Act may be cited as the Registration of Electors
(Amendment)  Act,  No.  22  of  2021  and  shall  come  into
operation on February 1, 2022.

Short  title  and
the  date  of
operation

2. Section 3 of the Registration of Electors  Act, No. 44
of 1980 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”)
is hereby amended by the substitution for the words, “The
first day of June”, of the words “The first day of February”.

Amendment  of
section  3  of  Act,
No.  44  of  1980

3. Section  4  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby

amended as follows:—

Amendment  of
section  4  of  the
principal
enactment

(a)

(b)

(c)

in  subsection  (1)  thereof,  by  the  substitution  for
the words “The first day of June”, of the words “The
first day of February”;

in  subsection  (2)  thereof,  by  the  substitution  for
the words “the first day of June”, of the words “the
first day of February”; and

in  subsection  (3)  thereof,  by  the  substitution  for
the words “the first day of June”, of the words “the
first day of February”.

4. Section  12  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for
the words “the first day of June” of the words, “the first day
of February”.

Amendment  of
section  12  of  the
principal
enactment

2

Registration of Electors (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 2021

Amendment  of
section  13  of  the
principal
enactment

5. Section  13  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for  the  words  “thirty-first  day  of  January”  of  the  words
“thirtieth of September”.

Insertion  of  new
section  20A  in
the  principal
enactment

6. The  following  new  section  is  hereby  inserted
immediately after section 20, and shall have effect as section
20A in the principal enactment:—

“Different
qualifying
dates  and
supplementary
lists

20A. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of
section  3,  any  person  who  attains  the  age  of
eighteen years on any day—

(a) within the period commencing on the
first  day  of  February  in  any  year  and
ending on the thirty first day of May of
that  year;

(b) within the period commencing on the
first day of June in any year and ending
on  the  thirtieth  day  of  September  of
that year; and

(c) within the period commencing on the
first  day  of  October  in  any  year  and
ending on the thirty first day of January
of the subsequent year,

shall be qualified to have his name entered or
retained in a register as an elector.

(2) Every person qualified to be registered
as an elector under subsection (1) of this section
may apply for registration as an elector to the
registering  officer  of  the  electoral  district  in
which the qualified address of such person in
terms of subsection (2) of section 4 is situated.

Registration of Electors (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 2021

3

(3) Every qualified person to be registered
as an elector under  subsection (1) shall make
such  application  to  the  registering  officer  of
the  electoral  district  in  which  the  qualified
address of such person in terms of subsection
(2)  of  section  4  is  situated,  along  with  the
following  documents:–

(a)

(b)

a copy of the birth certificate of such
person; or

a copy of the  National Identity Card of
such person.

(4) Every registering officer of an electoral
district  shall  prepare  supplementary  lists
respectively of—

(a)

(b)

(c)

all  persons  who  have  attained  the
age of eighteen years between the first
day  of  February  of  that  year  and  the
thirty first day of May of that year, who
have applied  for registration;

all persons who have attained the age
of eighteen years between the first day
of  June  in  that  year  and  the  thirtieth
day of September of that year who have
applied  for registration; and

all  persons  who  have  attained  the
age of eighteen years between the first
day  of  October  in  a  year  and  the
thirty  first  day  of  January  of  the
subsequent year   who have applied  for
registration.

4

Registration of Electors (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 2021

(5)  Every  registering  officer  of  each
electoral  district  shall  give  notice  within  a
period  of  two  weeks  that  the  respective
supplementary  lists  referred  to  in  subsection
(4)  have  been  completed,  and  such
supplementary  lists  of  copies  thereof  are
available for inspection at all reasonable hours
of the day at the office of the registering officer
or at such other places in the electoral district
as may be specified in the notice. Every such
notice shall be  published in the Gazette and in
at least one newspaper  each in Sinhala, Tamil
and English Languages.

(6) Every person who claims to have a right
to have his name included in a supplementary
list prepared under this section may apply to
the registering officer of the electoral district
to  have  his  name  included  in  that  list.  Every
such application shall be made within a period
of  ten  days  of  the  publication  of  the  notice
relating to such supplementary list.

(7)  A  registered  elector  may  object  to  the
inclusion  of  the  name  of  any  person  in  a
supplementary list prepared under this section
and  every  such  objection  shall  be  made  in
writing to the registering officer of the electoral
district  within  a  period  of  ten  days  of  the
publication  of  the  notice  relating  to  such
supplementary list.

(8) Any provisions of  this Act relating to
determination of claims  and objections shall
mutatis  mutandis  apply  to  any  claims  and
objections under this section.

Registration of Electors (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 2021

5

(9) The registering officer of each electoral
district  shall  certify  the  supplementary  lists
prepared  by  him  under  this  section
immediately  after  the  claims  and  objections
have  been  adjudicated.  Upon  such
certification, the supplementary lists shall be
known as the certified supplementary register
and be attached as an annexure to the electoral
register for that electoral district.

(10)  Upon  the  certification  of  any
supplementary register under subsection (9) of
section 20A, the registering officer shall give
notice  in  the  Gazette  and  in  at  least  one
newspaper in each of the National Languages
that the register has been certified.

(11) The certified supplementary register
for  any  electoral  district  shall  come  into
operation on the date of the publication in the
Gazette of the notice referred to in subsection
(10) and subject to such alterations if any, as
may  subsequently  be  made  therein  in
accordance with subsection (4) of section 15
or  section  18,  such  certified  supplementary
register shall continue to be in operation until
superseded  by  the  coming  into  operation  of
the next certified register.”.

7. The  following  new  section  is  hereby  inserted
immediately after section 24, and shall have effect as section
24A of the principal enactment:–

Insertion  of  new
section  24A

6

Registration of Electors (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 2021

“Power  of  the
Election
Commission
to  issue
directions

24A.  The  Election  Commission  may  issue
such directions as it may consider necessary,
to  provide  for  any  difficulty  or  unforeseen
circumstances  or  for  the  determination  or
adjustment of any question or matter in relation
to the registration of electors under this Act.”.

8. Section  29  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended in the definition of the expression of “register of
electors” by the substitution for the words “for any electoral
district ;” of the words “including the certified supplementary
register prepared under section 20A for any electoral district.”.

9. The  Schedule  to  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby

amended as follows:–

(1)

(2)

in  items  (2),  (3)  and  (5)  (ii)  of  form  A  of  the
Schedule  by  the  substitution  for  the  words  and
figures “June 1, 19...” of the words and figures of
“February 1, 20...”.

in subsections (2), (3) and (5) (ii) of form B of the
Schedule  by  the  substitution  for  the  words  and
figures “June 1, 19...” of the words and figures of
“February 1, 20...”.

10.

(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 3, any
person  who  attains  the  age  of  eighteen  years  on  any  date
within the period from the first day of June 2021 to the date
of commencement of this Act shall be qualified to have such
person’s name entered or retained in the register of electors
as an elector and every such person shall apply for registration
to the registering officer of the electoral district in which the
qualified address of such person in terms of subsection (2) of
section 4 is situated along with the documents specified in
subsection (3) of section 20A.

Amendment  of
section  29  of
the  principal
enactment

Amendment  of
the  Schedule  to
the  principal
enactment

Supplementary
list  for  a
specified  period

Registration of Electors (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 2021

7

(2) Every registering officer shall make a supplementary
list  for  the  purpose  of  subsection  (1)  and  shall  mutatis
mutandis  apply the procedure specified in subsections (5)
to (11) of section 20A for the preparation of the supplementary
list.

11.

In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

8

Registration of Electors (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 2021

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

