THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of August 30, 2024

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 03.09.2024)

NATIONAL  BUILDING  RESEARCH  INSTITUTE

A

BILL

to provide for the establishment of the National Building Research Institute
and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto

Ordered to be published by the Minister of  Defence

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 42.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

2-2d

National  Building  Research  Institute

1

L.D. – O. 33/2012

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL
BUILDING RESEARCH INSTITUTE AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.  This Act may be cited as the National Building Research

Short  title

Institute Act, No.     of 2024. 

5

PART I

 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL BUILDING RESEARCH INSTITUTE

2.  (1) There shall be established an Institute to be called
and  known  as  the  National  Building  Research  Institute
(hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”).

10

(2)  The  Institute  shall,  by  the  name  assigned  to  it  by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
its corporate name.

Establishment
of  the
National
Building
Research
Institute

3. The objects of the Institute shall be -

Objects  of
the  Institute

15

(a) to conduct and promote research and surveys in the
areas  prone  to  landslides  or  an  area  having
geotechnical instability with a view to minimizing
its  impact,  and  developing  such  areas  in  a
sustainable manner; 

2

National  Building  Research  Institute

(b) to  ensure  that  construction  and  development
activities are conducted in a manner that is disaster
resilient in the areas prone to landslides or an area
having geotechnical instability in accordance with
the  National  Policy  on  Construction  formulated
under  section  2  of  the  Construction  Industry
Development Act, No. 33 of 2014 and the National
Policy and Program on the Management of Disasters
formulated under the provisions of the Sri Lanka
Disaster Management Act, No. 13 of 2005, and to
provide related technical assistance; and

(c) to undertake research related to ensuring disaster

resilient built environment. 

4. The Institute shall have the following powers: -

Powers  of  the
Institute

(a) to  assist  the  relevant  authorities  on  safe
development  and  construction  practices  in
accordance  with  the  National  Policy  on
Construction  formulated  under  section  2  of  the
Construction Industry Development Act, No. 33 of
2014 and the National Policy and Program on the
Management  of  Disasters  formulated  under  the
provisions of the Sri Lanka Disaster Management
Act, No. 13 of 2005 on the request made by such
relevant authorities; 

(b) to monitor and verify compliance of the Landslide
Risk Assessment Report or Geotechnical Stability
Assessment  Report  and  issue  Certificate  of
Conformity in terms of section 24 of this Act;

(c) to assist the relevant authorities on any construction
or  development  activity  endangering  human  life,
property  and  environment  within  the  areas  prone
to  landslides  or  the  areas  having  geotechnical
instability;

5

10

15

20

25

30

National  Building  Research  Institute

3

(d) to  formulate  disaster  risk  reduction  planning  and

practices;

(e) to appoint technical advisory committees;

5

(f) to purchase and hold, take or give on lease or hire,
mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of, any
movable or immovable property;

(g) to employ, hire or obtain the services of any person
with  necessary  expertise,  knowledge,  skills  and
experience for the activities of the Institute;

10

(h) to charge fees or any other payments for any services

provided by the Institute;

(i) to accept grants, gifts or donations received from
persons  or  bodies  of  persons  within  or  outside
Sri Lanka:

Provided  that,  notwithstanding  anything  to  the
contrary  in  any  other  provisions  of  this  Act,  the
Board  shall  obtain  prior  written  approval  of  the
Department of External Resources in respect of all
foreign grants, gifts or donations;

(j) to open and maintain current, savings, or deposit
accounts  in  any  bank  or  finance  institute  in
Sri Lanka;

(k) to invest in any bank and any finance institute any
funds not immediately required for the purposes of
the Institute in such manner as the Board may think
appropriate;

(l) to  enter  into  and  perform  all  such  contracts  or
agreements as may be necessary for the exercise of
the powers and the carrying out of the objects of
the Institute; and 

15

20

25

30

4

National  Building  Research  Institute

(m) to  do  all  such  acts  and  things  which  may  be
conducive or incidental to, the achievement of the
objects of the Institute as may be authorized by the
Board.

5

5. The functions of the Institute shall be -

Functions  of
the  Institute

10

15

20

25

(a) to assist the functions of a technical nature of the
National  Council  for  Disaster  Management
established under section 2 of the Sri Lanka Disaster
Management Act, No. 13 of 2005 as the national
focal point for landslide risk management; 

(b) to investigate, identify and map the areas prone to
landslides  or  the  areas  having  geotechnical
instability and demarcate the susceptibility levels
and prepare hazard zonation maps;

(c) to  identify  and  declare  an  area  with  risk  of  a
potential  landslide  as  a  “landslide  danger  zone”
for the purpose of evacuation of persons;

(d) to  issue  early  warning  for  areas  with  potential

impacts due to landslides;

(e) to issue Landslide Risk Assessment Report for any
type  of  construction  or  development  activity
conducted in the area prone to landslides;

(f) to conduct research and studies on landslides and
monitor  impacts  of  climate  change  on  landslides
and to design and implement mitigatory measures
to reduce risks associated with landslide;  

(g) to provide proactive scientific solutions to minimize
social,  economic  and  environmental  impacts  due
to  landslides;

National  Building  Research  Institute

5

(h) to assist the relevant authorities in the preparation
of land use plans in an area prone to landslides or
an  area  having  geotechnical  instability;

(i) to perform geotechnical investigations and provide
technical  services  on  ground  improvement  and
slope stabilization measures;

(j) to conduct research relating to construction in areas
having  geotechnical  instability  and  to  provide
related  technical  assistance;

(k) to  make  recommendations  to  the  Minister  to
prescribe the scope of geotechnical investigations
and design for engineering applications;

(l) to issue Geotechnical Stability Assessment Reports
on ground stability for excavation or construction;

5

10

15

(m) to function as a depository of all information related

to  geotechnical  investigations;

20

25

(n) to conduct research on disaster resilient construction
and to provide related technical assistance;

(o) to assess chemical, physical and biological changes
in  environment  to  provide  related  technical
solutions;

(p) to assess building based on structure, occupancy,
energy  and  environment  on  the  request  of  the
occupant or the owner of the building and to provide
technical  assistance;

(q) to  conduct  research  on  materials,  products  and
technologies  used  for  construction  purposes  and
suitability  thereof;

6

National  Building  Research  Institute

5

10

15

20

(r) to investigate into the conditions of damage, safety
and  incorporation  of  disaster  resilient  design  and
construction  features  in  buildings  and  structures
and provide technical solutions on structural safety,
on the request of the occupant or the owner of the
building;

(s) to provide assistance to the relevant authorities in
the  development  of  policy,  guidelines,
specifications  and  standards  in  respect  of  the
construction  and  development  activities,  on  the
request made by such relevant authorities;

(t) to  disseminate  scientific  knowledge  and
information  in  areas  of  expertise  of  the  Institute
through  awareness  creation,  training  and
technology transfer; and

(u) to  collaborate  with  local  and  international
stakeholders  in  conducting  research  and  surveys
subject  to  the  approval  of  the  Board  and  to
disseminate  the  outcome  of  such  research  and
surveys  whilst  maintaining  confidentiality  on  the
data collected and, subject to written laws on patent
rights. 

PART II

ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE INSTITUTE

25

6. (1) The administration, management and control of the
affairs  of  the  Institute  shall  be  vested  in  the  Board  of
Governors of the Institute (in this Act referred to as “Board”)
which shall consist of-

Constitution
of  the  Board
of  Governors
of  the
Institute

National  Building  Research  Institute

7

(a) the following ex- officio members, namely: -

5

(i)

(ii)

10

(iii)

the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister assigned the subject of Disaster
Management who shall be the Chairperson
of the Board;

the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister assigned the subject of Finance
or his   representative not below the rank
of Additional Secretary;

the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry  of  the
Minister  assigned  the  subject  of  Local
Authorities  or  his      representative  not
below the rank of Additional Secretary;

15

20

25

30

(iv)

the  Director-General  of  the  Disaster
Management Center established under the
Sri  Lanka  Disaster  Management  Act,
No.13 of 2005; and

(b) the  following  members  to  be  appointed  by  the
Minister  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “appointed
members”):-

(i) one person having not less than five years
experience in the field of disaster resilience
and postgraduate qualifications in one or
more  disciplines,  namely  engineering,
geology, 
science,
environmental 
architecture  or  urban  development
nominated  by  the  Secretary  to  the
Ministry  of  the  Minister  assigned  the
subject of Housing;

(ii) one  academic  nominated  by 

the
University Grants Commission established
under the Universities Act, No.16 of 1978

8

National  Building  Research  Institute

from  among  academics  holding
postgraduate qualifications in one or more
disciplines, namely engineering, geology,
environmental  science,  architecture  or
urban  development;  and

industry 

(iii) one professional with expertise in the local
geotechnical  engineering  or  building
construction 
holding
postgraduate qualifications in one or more
disciplines, namely engineering, geology,
environmental  science,  architecture  or
urban  development  nominated  by  the
Chamber  of  Construction  Industry,  Sri
Lanka incorporated under the Chamber of
Construction  Industry  of  Sri  Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 2019.

5

10

15

 (2) The Director-General of the Institute appointed under
section 16 of this Act shall be the Secretary to the Board and
shall not to be entitled to vote at any meeting of the Board.

20

(3) The Board shall, for the purpose of administering the
affairs  of  the  Institute,  exercise  and  discharge  the  powers
and functions conferred on, assigned to or imposed on the
Institute by this Act. 

7. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed as

25

a member or continuing as a member of the Board, if -

(a)  he is or becomes, a member of Parliament, a member
of any Provincial Council or a member of a Local
Authority;

(b) he is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka;

30

(c) he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any
other country, found or declared to be of unsound
mind; 

Disqualifications
from being a
member of the
Board

National  Building  Research  Institute

9

(d) he is an undischarged insolvent or bankrupt; having
been declared bankrupt or insolvent under any law
in Sri Lanka or in any other country;  

(e) he  is  serving  or  has  served  a  sentence  of
imprisonment imposed by any court in Sri Lanka
or in any other country;

(f) he holds or enjoys any right or benefit under any
contract made by, or on behalf of the Institute; or

(g) he has any financial or other interests as is likely to
affect  the  discharge  by  him  of  his  functions  as  a
member of the Institute.

5

10

8. Every appointed member of the Board shall, unless he
vacates office earlier by death, resignation or removal, hold
office  for  a  term  of  three  years  from  the  date  of  his
appointment.

15

Term  of
office  of
members  of
the  Board

9. (1) Any appointed member may resign office by letter

addressed to the Minister. 

(2) The Minister shall remove from office any appointed

member by a written communication addressed to him -

Vacation  of
office  of  the
appointed
members

20

(a) if  he  becomes  subject  to  any  disqualification  as

specified in section 7;

(b) if  in  the  opinion  of  the  Minister,  he  becomes
permanently incapable of performing his duties due
to any physical disability or unsoundness of mind;
or

25

(c) if  he  does  any  act  which,  in  the  opinion  of  the
Minister  is  likely  to  bring  the  Institute  into
disrepute.

10

National  Building  Research  Institute

(3)    Any  appointed  member  to  whom  a  written
communication  is  addressed  under  subsection  (2),  shall
vacate his office with effect from the date specified in such
communication.

5

(4) Any appointed member who has been removed from
office shall not be eligible for reappointment as a member of
the Board or to serve the Institute in any other capacity.

10

15

20

(5) Upon the vacation of office by any appointed member,
the  Minister  may  appoint  any  suitable  person  having  the
qualifications  set  out  in  section  6  of  this  Act  to  fill  such
vacancy and such person shall hold office for the unexpired
period of the term of office of the appointed member whom
he succeeds.

(6) Where any appointed member is temporarily unable
to perform the duties of his office due to ill health, absence
from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister may appoint
any  suitable  person  having  the  qualifications  set  out  in
section 6 of this Act to act in place of such member.

10.  The  members  of  the  Board  shall  be  paid  such
remuneration or allowance at such rates as may be determined
by the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister assigned
the subject of Finance.

Remuneration
of    the
members  of
the  Board

The  quorum
at  the
meetings  of
the  Board

11. (1) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be

four.

25

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the procedure for
the transaction of business at meetings of the Board shall be
determined by the Board.

(3)    Any  question  arising  at  any  meeting  of  the  Board
shall be determined by   a majority of the members present
and in the case of an equality of votes, the Chairperson shall
have a second or casting vote.

30

(4)  The Board may act notwithstanding a vacancy in the
Board  so  long  as  the  number  of  members  of  the  Board  is
sufficient to constitute a quorum for a meeting of the Board.

National  Building  Research  Institute

11

12. (1) For the purposes of this Act, a member of the Board
or  an  officer  not  below  the  rank  of  a  technical  officer
authorized in writing by the Board may, upon the request
made by an owner or occupier of a land enter into such land.

Power  of  the
Board  to
enter  and
inspect  any
land

5

10

15

20

25

30

(2)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  subsection  (1),
where a member of the Board or an officer not below the
rank of a technical officer authorized in writing by the Board
satisfies himself of the material facts before such member or
officer that there exists an imminent risk of a landslide, it
shall be lawful for such member or officer to enter into a land
with a police officer with the consent of the owner or occupier
of such land. 

(3) The member or officer may enter upon any land, with
or without necessary vehicles, equipments or tools and inspect
the  land  and  take  any  sample  of  soil  or  carry  out  any
assessment or test therein. 

(4) The owner or occupier of such land shall afford all
reasonable assistance to the member or officer referred to in
subsection (1).

13. (1) The Board may, subject to such conditions as may
be specified in writing, delegate to the Chairperson of the
Board,    the  Director-General,  the  Technical  Advisory
Committee,  or  any person referred to in paragraph (g) of
section 4  any of its powers other than the powers specified
in paragraphs  (e), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k) and (m) of section 4, as
the case may be, and the Chairperson, the Director-General,
the Technical Advisory Committee,  or  any person referred
to in paragraph (g) of section 4 shall exercise such powers
subject  to  any  general  or  special  directions  issued  by  the
Board.

(2)  Notwithstanding  any  delegation  made  under
subsection (1), the Board may exercise any such power so
delegated. 

Delegation  of
powers  of  the
Board

Board  to
exercise  its
powers  and
perform  its
functions
under  the
directions  of
the  Minister

Seal  of  the
Institute

12

National  Building  Research  Institute

14.  The  Minister  may,  from  time  to  time,  issue  such
general  or  special  directions  to  the  Board  relating  to  the
exercise and performance of its powers and functions under
this Act and it shall be the duty of the Board to comply with
such directions.

5

  15. The seal of the Institute -

(a) shall be in the custody of such person as the Board

may, from time to time, determine;

(b) may  be  altered  in  such  manner  as  may  be

determined by the Board; and

(c) shall not be affixed to any document or instrument
except  in  the  presence  of  two  members  of  the
Board, both of whom shall sign the document or
instrument in token of their presence.

PART III

STAFF OF THE INSTITUTE

16. (1) The Minister shall  in consultation with the Board,
appoint  to  the  staff  of  the  Institute,  a  Director-General
(hereinafter referred to as “the Director-General”), from among
persons  who  have  achieved  eminence  in  the  field  of
Engineering,  Science  or  Technology  whose  qualifications
and experience shall be prescribed by regulations. 

Director-
General  of
the  Institute

(2) The Director-General appointed under subsection (1)

shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Institute. 

(3)  The  emoluments  of  the  Director-  General  shall  in
consultation  with  the  Minister  assigned  the  subject  of
Finance be determined by the Board  in accordance with the
applicable guidelines of the government.

(4)  The  Director-General  shall,  subject  to  the  general
direction of the Board, be responsible for the management
of the affairs of the Institute, including the administration
and  management  of  the  officers  and  employees  of  the
Institute.

10

15

20

25

30

National  Building  Research  Institute

13

(5) (a) The person who holds the office of the Director-
General shall, unless such person vacates such office earlier
by death, resignation or removal, hold such office until the
age of retirement. The age of retirement shall be determined
by  the  Board  in  accordance  with  applicable  guidelines  of
the government.  

(b) The Minister may, for reasons assigned, remove the

Director-General from office.

(6) The office of the Director-General shall become vacant
upon  the  death,  removal  or  retirement  from  office  under
subsection  (5)  or  resignation  by  letter  addressed  to  the
Minister.

(7) Where any vacancy occurs in the office of the Director-
General, the Minister shall appoint an officer of the Institute
having qualifications and experience specified in subsection
(1) to exercise and perform the powers and functions of the
office of the Director-General until an appointment is made
under subsection (1) to fill such vacancy.

17.  The  Director-General  may  whenever  he  considers
necessary to do so with the approval of the Board, delegate
to any officer of the Institute, any power or function assigned
to him by this Act and such officer shall exercise and perform
such power or function, subject to the direction and control
of the Director-General:

Director-
General  may
delegate  his
powers  or
functions

5

10

15

20

25

Provided that, no power or function delegated under
subsection  (1)  of  section  13  shall  be  delegated  under  this
section. 

18. (1) The Board may appoint Directors of the Institute,
to  be  in  charge  of  separate  divisions  of  the  Institute.  The
terms  and  conditions  of  such  employment  shall  be
determined by the Board.

30

Directors  of
the  Institute

14

National  Building  Research  Institute

(2)  The  Directors  appointed  under  subsection  (1)  shall
exercise and discharge their powers and functions assigned
from time to time by the Director-General.

5

19.  (1) The Board may appoint such officers and other
employees as may be necessary for the efficient exercise and
discharge of the powers and functions of the Institute. 

Appointment
of officers and
employees

(2) The terms and conditions of employment, including
remuneration,  the  eligibility  criteria  and  the  schemes  of
recruitment  of  the  officers  and  employees  referred  to  in
subsection (1) shall be determined by the Board in keeping
with related guidelines of the Government. 

(3) The Board shall not however appoint any person who
has been dismissed from any previous position held by such
person  in  the  public  or  private  sector  as  an  officer  or  an
employee of the Institute.

20. (1) At the request of the Institute, any officer in the
public service may, with the consent of that officer, and the
Public  Service  Commission  established  under  the
Constitution  be  temporarily  appointed  to  the  staff  of  the
Institute  for  such  period  as  may  be  determined  by  the
Institute or with like consent be permanently appointed to
the staff of the Institute.

Appointment
of public
officers to the
staff of  the
Institute

(2) Where any officer in the public service temporarily
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Institute,  the  provisions  of
subsection  (2)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission  Act,  No.  37  of  1991  shall  mutatis  mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.

10

15

20

25

30

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Institute,  the  provisions  of
subsection  (3)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer. 

 
National  Building  Research  Institute

15

(4) Where the Institute employs any officer in the public
service who has entered into a contract with the Government
by  which  he  has  agreed  to  serve  the  Government  for  a
specified  period,  any  period  of  service  to  the  Institute  by
such officer shall be regarded as service to the Government
for  the  purpose  of  discharging  the  obligations  of  such
contract.

5

PART  IV

FINANCE

10

21. (1) The Institute shall have its own Fund. There shall

be credited to the Fund of the Institute -

Fund  of  the
Institute

(a) all  sums  of  money  as  may  be  received  by  the
Institute  in  the  exercise  and  discharge  of  its
powers and functions; and

15

(b) all  sums  of  money  as  may  be  received  by  the
Institute by way of loans, donations, gifts or grants
from any sources whether in or outside Sri Lanka
in terms of paragraph (i) of section 4.

20

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Institute all
such sums of money required to defray expenditure incurred
by the Institute in the exercise and discharge of its powers
and functions under this Act.

22.  (1)  The  financial  year  of  the  Institute  shall  be  the

calendar year.

Financial
year  and  the
audit  of
accounts

25

(2) The Institute shall cause proper books of accounts to
be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other financial transactions of the Institute.

16

National  Building  Research  Institute

(3)  The  provisions  of  Article  154  of  the  Constitution
relating  to  the  auditing  of  accounts  of  corporations  shall
apply in relation to the audit of accounts of the Institute.

5

23. The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of
1971, shall mutatis mutandis apply to and in respect of the
financial control and accounts of the Institute.

PART V

GENERAL PROVISIONS

10

24.  (1)  The  Landslide  Risk  Assessment  Report  or
Geotechnical  Stability  Assessment  Report  shall  be  issued
by the Institute on the request made by any person.

(2) Where any relevant authority requests the Institute to
monitor  compliance  of  the  report  issued  under  subsection
(1), the Institute shall monitor and report to such relevant
authority  the  compliance  of  such  report  and  issue  a
Certificate of Conformity.

Application
of  Part  II  of
the  Finance
Act,  No.  38
of  1971

Issuing  of
the
Landslides
Risk
Assessment
Report  ect

25. (1)  Where  any  land  or  any  servitude  over  a  land  is
required by the Institute for the purpose of construction or
maintenance of an office of the Institute established under
this  Act,    such  purpose  shall  for  the  purpose  of  the  Land
Acquisition  Act  (Chapter  460)  be  deemed  to  be  a  public
purpose and such land or servitude may be acquired under
the Land Acquisition Act  by the Government for the Institute
and the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act shall apply
to and in relation to such acquisition.

Acquisition
of  land  or  a
servitude
over  a  land
for  the
Institute
under  the
Land
Acquisition
Act

(2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of such land or
servitude under the Land Acquisition Act (Chapter 460) for
the Institute shall be paid out of the Fund of the Institute.

15

20

25

National  Building  Research  Institute

17

(3) Where any state land is required for the purpose of the
Institute, such purpose shall be deemed to be a purpose for
which a special grant or lease of such property may be made
under  section  6  of  the  Crown  Lands  Ordinance  (Chapter
454) and, accordingly, the provisions of that Ordinance shall
apply to the special grant or lease of that property.

5

26.  (1) The Director-General shall, within six months of
the end of each calendar year transmit an annual report giving
full account of the activities of the Institute during that year
to the Minister.

10

Annual report

(2) The Minister shall cause copies of the annual report to
be placed in Parliament within three months from the date of
such report receipt.

15

(3) The Minister may, from time to time, specify the matters
which  need  to  or  details  that  to  be  included  in  the  annual
report. 

27. All members of the Board, officers and employees of
the  Institute  shall  be  deemed  to  be  public  officers  within
the  meaning  and  for  the  purpose  of  the  Penal  Code
(Chapter 19).

20

All members of
the Board  etc.
deemed to be
public officers

28.  The  Institute  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  Scheduled
Institution within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Act,
No. 9 of 2023 and the provisions of that Act shall be construed
accordingly.

Institute deemed
to be a
Scheduled
Institution

25

29. (1) All expenses incurred by the Institute in any suit
brought by or against it before any court, shall be paid out of
the Fund of the Institute and only costs paid to or recovered
by  the  Institute  in  any  such  suit,  shall  be  credited  to  the
Fund of the Institute.

Expenses to be
paid out of the
Fund of the
Institute

18

National  Building  Research  Institute

 (2) Any expenses incurred by a member of the Board, the
Director-General, a Director, any officer or other employee
of  the  Institute,  in  any  suit  or  prosecution  brought  by  or
against such person before any court in respect of any act
which is done or purported to be done by such person under
this Act or on the direction of the Minister or the Board, as
the case may be, shall, if  court holds that such act was done
in good faith, be paid out of the Fund of the Institute, unless
such  expenses  are  recovered  by  him  in  such  suit  or
prosecution.

30.  Every person who contravenes or fails to comply with
any provision of this Act commits an offence and shall on
conviction before a Magistrate be liable to imprisonment of
either description for a term not exceeding two years or to a
fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to both
such imprisonment and fine.

Contravention
of  the
provisions  of
this  Act  to  be
an  offence

5

10

15

31.  (1) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose
of  carrying  out  or  giving  effect  to  the  principles  and
provisions of this Act or in respect of any matter which is
required by this Act to be prescribed.

20

Regulations

(2)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  under
subsection (1), shall be published in the Gazette and shall
come into operation on the date of such publication or on
such later date as may be specified in the regulation.

25

30

(3)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  under
subsection (1) shall within three months from the date of the
publication in the Gazette be brought before Parliament for
approval.  Any regulation which is not so approved shall be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval
but  without  prejudice  to  anything  previously  done
thereunder. 

National  Building  Research  Institute

19

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation shall
be deemed to be rescinded, shall be published in the Gazette.

32. In this Act, unless the context otherwise require –

Interpretation

5

10

15

20

25

30

“bank”  means  any  bank  licensed  under  the
provisions of the Banking Act, No. 30
of 1988;

“buildings”  include  a  structure  under
construction,  partly  constructed,  or
fully  constructed  as  a  house,  an
apartment  or  a  condominium  property
for  human  occupation  or  evacuation
center, or a house for resettlement used
in disaster management that is in a state
of either occupied or vacant or  a school,
an  educational  institution,  a  hotel,  an
office, a hall,  a place of worship, a shop,
a  shopping  complex,  a  factory  or  a
warehouse of commercial interest or any
other similar place where general public
may gather;  

“early warning” means, the process to generate
and disseminate timely and meaningful
information 
warning 
to  enable
individuals, 
communities
and 
threatened  by  a  hazard  to  prepare  and
to  act  appropriately  and  in  sufficient
time  to  reduce  the  possibility  of  harm
or loss;

“finance institute” means an institute licensed
under  the  provisions  of  the  Finance
Business Act, No. 42 of 2011;

20

National  Building  Research  Institute

  “Geotechnical  instability”  means  the
instability caused by subsoils that as a
result  of  the  circumstances  of  its
composition  or  a  change 
in
environmental  conditions  has  the
potential to expand, collapse, disperse
or undergo excessive settlement under
relatively  low  stress  conditions  and
cause failure of buildings and structures
built  on  it;

a  document 

“Geotechnical  Stability  Assessment    Report”
means 
regarding
geotechnical  stability  concerns,  issues
in  respect  of  any  construction  or
development  activity  involving  deep
excavation,  underground  excavation,
ground  improvement  work,  retaining
structures, or substructure construction
work  which  may  adversely  affect  the
subject  site,  adjoining  properties  and
the  proposed  development,  subject  to
geotechnical  assessment  on  ground
slope 
and
geotechnical characteristics, geological
formation,  characteristics  of  rock
discontinuities, 
of
subsurface water, potential for surface
water  stagnation,  and  effect  of
dewatering  and  includes  necessary
conditions,  guidelines,  technical
advice and mitigation measures as may
be  appropriate;

geological 

behaviour 

angle, 

“hazard  zonation  map”  means,  a  map  that  is
prepared  identifying  the  area  prone  to
hazards,  indicating  zones  having

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

National  Building  Research  Institute

21

different  levels  of  susceptibilities  and
may  in  addition  contain  information
related to the particular hazards such as
sketches  of  evacuation  routes  and
shelters,  evaluation  of  disaster
possibility and frequency, warning and
evacuation  systems,  distribution  of
settlements, and other basic information
related to disaster;

“landslide” means any type of mass movement
including land subsidence created or to
be  created  due  to  human  activities  or
natural causes;

“landslide  danger  zone”  means,  an  exclusion
zone  declared  by  the  Institute  for  a
specific  period  of  time  to  prevent
activities 
therein,
including  human  occupation  that  may
endanger the lives of persons or cause
injury  and  property  damage  in  a
particular area subject to an imminent
danger of a landslide disaster;

taking  place 

  “Landslide Risk Assessment Report” means,
a  document  issued  in  respect  of  any
construction or development activity in
an area prone to landslides, and includes
necessary  guidelines,  technical  advice
and  mitigation  measures  as  may  be
appropriate; 

“Minister”  means  the  Minister  to  whom  this
Act is assigned under Article 44 or 45
of  the  Constitution;  and

“relevant authorities” includes every ministry,
department,  provincial  council,
provincial  department,  and  local

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

22

National  Building  Research  Institute

authority  and  project  approving
agencies empowered to approve project
proposals for implementation.

33.  (1)  The  National  Building  Research  Organisation
established  pursuant  to  the  Decision  of  the  Cabinet  of
Ministers  (Cabinet  Decision  No.  07/0435/343/002  of
April  4,  2007)  shall  cease  to  operate  with  effect  from  the
date of commencement of this Act.

Savings

(2) (a) All officers and employees of the National Building
Research  Organisation  who  were  in  employment  in  such
Organisation on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, and who have not reached their
respective ages of retirement as at the date of commencement
of this Act, shall be offered employment with effect from the
date of commencement of this Act in the Institute, on terms
and conditions not less favorable to the terms and conditions
of employment applicable to them on the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act; 

(b) Any officer and employee referred to in paragraph (a),
who wishes to opt out of employment in the Institute, may
do  so  within  six  months  from  the  date  on  which  he  was
offered employment in the Institute.

(c)  If  any  such  officer  or  employee  as  referred  to  in
paragraph (b) exercises his option not to accept the offer, he
shall  be  paid  compensation  under  a  voluntary  retirement
scheme to be implemented in that behalf, with the approval
of  the  Minister  and  the  Minister  assigned  the  subject  of
Finance.

5

10

15

20

25

34. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

30

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case of 
inconsistency

National  Building  Research  Institute

23

Department  of  Government  Printing

