THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of June 17, 2022

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 22.06.2022)

INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES (AMENDMENT)

A

BILL

to amend the Industrial Disputes Act (Chapter 131)

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Labour and Foreign Employment

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT

Clause 2: This clause amends section 31DD of the Industrial Disputes Act, (Chapter 131)
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) and the legal effect of that section as amended
is to provide for the employer to furnish a security in cash to the President of relevant Labour
Tribunal, in respect of an appeal to the Supreme Court, against an order of a High Court.

Clause 3: This clause inserts new section 31DDDDD in the principal enactment to provide for
the employer to furnish a security in cash to the Commissioner-General of Labour, in respect of
an appeal to the Court of Appeal, against an award of an arbitrator or an industrial court for the
issue of a writ.

Clause 4: This clause inserts new section 33A in the principal enactment to provide for the
employer  to  furnish  a  security  in  cash  to  the  relevant  Magistrate’s  Court,  in  respect  of  an
application to the High Court, against an order of the Magistrate’s Court or the Commissioner-
General.

Industrial Disputes (Amendment)

1

L.D.-O. 25/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES
ACT (CHAPTER 131)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Industrial  Disputes

Short title

(Amendment) Act, No.    of 2022.

2. Section  31 DD  of  the    Industrial  Disputes  Act
(Chapter  131)  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended by the insertion immediately
after  subsection  (1)  of  that  section  of  the  following  new
subsections:–

Amendment  of
section  31DD  of
Chapter 131

“(1A) Where an employer who is dissatisfied with
a final order of a High Court established under Article
154P of the Constitution which is in favour of a workman
on an apeal made by such workman against any order
of a tribunal, appeals to the Supreme Court against such
order, he shall furnish to the President of such tribunal,
a security in cash, where the order which is the subject
of such appeal directs–

(a) only the payment of a sum of money to the

workman of an amount equal to such sum;

(b) both the payment of a sum of money to the
workman and re-instatement of such worker,
of an amount equal to such sum and twelve
times  the  monthly  salary  or  wages  of  such
workman  at  the  time  his  services  were
terminated.

(1B) Every appeal preferred under subsection (1A),
shall be supported by a certificate under the hand of the

5

10

15

20

25

2

Industrial Disputes (Amendment)

President of the Tribunal to the effect that the security
as specified in subsection (1A) has been duly furnished
by the employer.

5

(1C) The  President  of  every  Tribunal  shall  cause
all moneys furnished as security under subsection (1A)
to be deposited in an account bearing interests, in any
approved bank in Sri Lanka.”.

3. The  following  new  section  is  hereby  inserted
immediately after section 31DDDD of the principal enactment
and shall have effect as section 31DDDDD of that enactment:–

10

Insertion of
new section
31DDDDD in the
principal
enactment

“Employer to
furnish a
security in
respect of an
application to
the Court of
Appeal

15

20

25

30

31DDDDD.  (1)  Where  an  application  is
preferred  by  an  employer  to  the  Court  of
Appeal, for the issue of an order in the nature
of a writ, against an award made by an arbitrator
under  section  17(1)  or  by  an  industrial  court
under  section  24,  the  Court  of  Appeal  shall
entertain  such  application  upon  furnishing  a
securtiy  by  such  employer,  in  cash  to  the
Commissioner-General,  where  such  award
which is subject to such application directs the
payment of a sum of money to the worker, of
an amount equal to such sum.

(2) The Commissioner-General shall cause
to  be  deposited  the  sum  as  specified  in
subsection (1) in an account bearing interests,
maintained by the Commissioner-General, in
any approved bank in Sri Lanka.

(3) Every application preferred under this
subsection, shall be supported by a certificate
under the hand of the Commissioner-General
to  the  effect  that  the  security  as  specifed  in
subsection (1) has been duly furnished by such
employer.”.

Industrial Disputes (Amendment)

3

4. The  following  new  section  is  hereby  inserted
immediately after section 33 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 33A of that enactment:–

Insertion of
section 33A in
the principal
enactment

“Employer to
furnish a
security in
respect of an
application to
the High Court

5

10

15

20

25

30

33 A.  (1)  Where  an  employer  who  is
dissatisfied  with  an  order  of  a  Magistrate’s
Court  on  any  written  complaint  made  by  the
Commissioner-General under section 136B of
the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of
1979 against such employer, due to any failure
to comply with an order of a tribunal, an award
of an industrial court or an arbitrator which has
been made in favor of a workman, makes an
application  to  invoke  the  revisionary
jurisdiction of the High Court establisded under
Article 154P of the Constitution, in respect of
such order, shall at the time of such application
furnish  to  the  relevant  Magistrate’s  Court,  a
security of an amount equal to such sum in cash,
where the order which is the subject of such
application  directs  the  payment  of  a  sum  of
money to the worker.

(2) The Registrar of the Magistrate’s Court
shall  cause  all  moneys  furnished  as  security
under  subsection  (1),  to  be  sent  to  the
Commissioner-General to deposit in an account
bearing 
the
Commissioner-General, in any approved bank
in Sri Lanka.

interests,  maintained  by 

(3) Every application made under subsection
(1) shall be supported by a certificate under the
hand  of  the  Registrar  of  the  relevant
Magistrate’s Court to the effect that the security
as  specified  in  subsection  (1)  has  been  duly
furnished by such employer.

4

Industrial Disputes (Amendment)

(4) The Commissioner-General shall refund
the sum furnished under subsection (1) together
with  the  interest  on  that  sum  to  the  relevant
party in accordance with the final order of the
High Court established under Article 154p, the
Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court, as the
case may be.”.

5

5. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of
inconsistency

Industrial Disputes (Amendment)

5

Department of Government Printing

