PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA

————————

INLAND  TRUST  RECEIPTS  (AMENDMENT)

A

BILL

to amend the Inland Trust Receipts Act, No. 14 of 1990

————————

Presented by the Minister of Finance on 23rd of October, 2019

(Published in the Gazette on August 09, 2019)

Ordered by Parliament to be printed

————————

[Bill No. 306]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

2-

This  Bill  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

2-2d

STATEMENT  OF  LEGAL  EFFECT

Clause 2: This clause amends section 3 of the Inland  Trust  Receipts  Act,  No.  14  of  1990,
and  the  legal  effect  of  the  section  as  amended  is  to  provide  for  the  legal  consequences  of
inland  trust  receipts  registered  under  the  Secured  Transactions  Act,  No.      of  2019,  but  not
under  the  Registration  of  Documents  Ordinance.

Clause  3:  This  clause  makes  provisions  in  regard  to  the  period  of  enforceability  of  inland
trust  receipts  already  registered  under  the  Registration  of  Documents  Ordinance  and  the
requirement  of  registering  those  inland  trust  receipts  under  the  Secured  Transactions  Act,
No.        of  2019  upon  coming  into  operation  of  the  said  Act  in  order  for  them  to  be  further
enforceable  and  for  their  priority  to  continue  to  prevail.

Inland Trust Receipts (Amendment)

1

L.D.—O. 67/2017

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INLAND TRUST RECEIPTS
ACT, NO. 14 OF 1990

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the Inland Trust Receipts
(Amendment)  Act,  No.              of  2019  and  shall  come  into
operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette.

5

Short  title
and  date  of
operation.

2. Section 3 of the Inland Trust Receipts Act, No. 14 of
1990 is hereby amended in subsection (1) of that section, by
the  substitution  for  the  words  “registered  under  the
Registration of Documents Ordinance as a bill of sale”, of
the  words  and  figures  “registered  under  the  Secured
Transactions Act, No.    of 2019 as a bill of sale”.

Amendment
of  section  3
of
Act,  No.  14
of  1990.

3.

(1) Where on the date of coming into operation of
this  Act  an  inland  trust  receipt  which  has  been  registered
under the Registration of Documents Ordinance as a bill of
sale is in force, such inland trust receipt shall, for a period of
two years from the date of coming into operation of this Act,
continue  to  be  enforceable,  but  shall  be  required  to  be
registered  under  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Secured
Transactions Act, No.    of 2019 as a bill of sale, prior to the
expiration of such two years period.

Provisions
relating  to
inland  trust
receipts
registered
under  the
Registration
of
Documents
Ordinance.

10

15

20

(2) A bill of sale referred to in subsection (1) shall, on
being registered under the Secured Transactions Act, No.   of
2019,  be deemed to have been perfected from the date on

2

Inland Trust Receipts (Amendment)

which such bill of sale initially became legally enforceable,
and any priority which such bill of sale became entitled to
at  the  time  it  initially  became  leaglly  enforceable,  shall
continue to prevail.

5

(3) A bill of sale referred to in subsection (1) which is not
registered under the Secured Transactions Act, No.   of  2019
prior to the expiration of two years from the date of coming
into operation of this Act, shall become legally unenforceable
after the expiry of such period.

10

4.

In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency.

Inland Trust Receipts (Amendment)

3

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

