THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of January 07, 2022

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 07.01.2022)

SPECIAL GOODS AND SERVICES TAX

A

BILL

to  provide for the imposition of a special goods and services tax, in lieu of
the sums chargeable on such specified goods and services by way of tax,
duty,  levy,  cess  or  any  other  charge  imposed  by  law;  to  promote
self-compliance in the payment of taxes in order to ensure greater efficiency
in relation to the collection and administration on such taxes by avoiding
the complexities associated with the application and administration of a
multiple tax regime on specified goods and services; and to provide for
       matters connected therewith or incidental thereto

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Finance

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 42.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

2-2d

Special Goods and Services Tax

1

L.D.—O. 20/2021

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION OF A SPECIAL GOODS AND
SERVICES TAX, IN LIEU OF THE SUMS CHARGEABLE  ON SUCH SPECIFIED
GOODS AND SERVICES BY WAY OF TAX, DUTY, LEVY, CESS OR ANY
OTHER CHARGE IMPOSED BY LAW; TO PROMOTE SELF-COMPLIANCE IN
THE PAYMENT OF TAXES IN ORDER TO ENSURE GREATER EFFICIENCY IN
RELATION  TO THE COLLECTION AND ADMINISTRATION OR SUCH TAXES
BY AVOIDING THE COMPLEXITIES ASSOCIATED WITH THE APPLICATION
AND ADMINISTRATION OF A MULTIPLE TAX REGIME ON SPECIFIED GOODS
AND SERVICES;  AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED
THEREWITH  OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

5

10

1. This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Special  Goods  and

Short    title

Services Tax Act, No. ……   of 2022.

2. (1) There shall be imposed a levy to be called as the
“Special Goods and Services Tax” which shall be a composite
tax payable on the following specified goods and services:-

Imposition  of
a  Special
Goods  and
Services  Tax

(a)

liquor,  cigarettes  and  vehicles  (inclusive  of  parts
for assembling of vehicles) being specified goods;
and

(b)

telecommunications,  and    betting  and  gaming,
being specified services,

that  are subjected to the tax, duty, levy, cess or any other
charge imposed, in terms of any enactment specified in the
Schedule   hereto.

15

2

Special Goods and Services Tax

(2) The Special Goods and Services Tax  shall be limited

to specified goods or services dealt with subsection (1).

(3) The Minister shall from time to time, specify by Order

published in the Gazette–

5

(a)

the  rate  of  tax  applicable,  either  ad  valorem    or
specific,  to  the  respective  specified  goods  or
services to which such Order relates; or

(b)

the basis of calculation of the Special Goods and
Services Tax in relation to the respective specified
goods or services to which the Order relates.

10

(4) Every Order made under subsection (3) shall continue
to be in force until such time it is revoked by the Minister, or
a subsequent Order is made by the Minister under subsection
(3).

15

(5)  Every  such  Order  made  by  the  Minister  under
subsection (3), shall be in operation immediately upon the
Minister affixing his signature thereto.

 (6) Every such Order shall be published in the Gazette.

(7) Every Order shall be brought before Parliament within
a period of three months from the date of its publication in
the Gazette, for the approval of Parliament. Where no meeting
of Parliament is held within such period, such Order shall be
brought  before  Parliament  for  the  approval,  at  the  first
meeting of Parliament held after the expiry of such period,
by a motion.

20

25

(8) Any such Order which is refused to be approved by
Parliament shall be deemed to be revoked with effect from
the date of such resolution, but without prejudice to anything
previously  done  thereunder.

Special Goods and Services Tax

3

3. (1)  (a)  Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  section  2,
the Minister may, from time to time by Order published in
the Gazette exempt from the payment of the Special Goods
and Services Tax payable under this Act, on any such goods
or services or any such class, grade, category or description
of such goods or services specified in such Order subject to
such conditions as may be specified in such Order.

5

Exemption
of  certain
goods  or
services

(b) For  the  avoidance  of  doubt,  the  provisions  of  the
enactments set out in the Schedule hereto shall not apply in
respect  of  such  goods  and  services  specified  in  the  Order
made under paragraph (a).

10

15

(2) Where a manufacturer or an importer sells or disposes
of  any  goods,  contrary  to  the  conditions  specified  in  the
Order  made  under  subsection  (1),  such  manufacture  or
importer  shall  be  liable  to  the  same  Special  Goods  and
Services Tax as was payable under this Act on such goods
like  which  are  subject  to  the  Special  Goods  and  Services
Tax.

(3) Every Order made under subsection (1) shall continue
to be in force until such time it is revoked by the Minister.

20

(4) Every  such  Order  made  by  the  Minister  under
subsection (1), shall be in operation immediately upon the
Minister affixing his signature thereto.

(5) Every such Order shall be published in the Gazette.

25

30

(6) Every Order shall be brought before Parliament within
a period of three months from the date of its publication in
the Gazette, for the approval of Parliament. Where no meeting
of Parliament is held within such period, such Order shall be
brought  before  Parliament  for  the  approval,  at  the  first
meeting of Parliament held after the expiry of such period,
by a motion.

4

Special Goods and Services Tax

(7) Any such Order which is refused to be approved by
Parliament shall be deemed to be revoked with effect from
the date of such resolution, but without prejudice to anything
previously  done  thereunder.

5

10

4. Where an Order made under subsection (3) of section 2
is in operation, any tax, duty, levy, cess or any other charge
imposed, in terms of any enactment set out in the Schedule
hereto  shall  not,  from  and  after  the  date  of  coming  into
operation  of  such  Order,  be  applicable  in  respect  of  any
specified goods or services referred to in subsection (1) of
section 2 of this Act:

Provided however, the provisions of the enactments
set out in the Schedule hereto may, where necessary, apply
for  the  purpose  of  the  enforcement,  prevention  and
punishment  of  the  contravention  of  the  provisions  of  this
Act and any regulations made thereunder.

15

5. (1) (a) The Secretary to the Treasury shall set up a unit
under  the  purview  of  a  Deputy  Secretary  to  the  Treasury
(hereinafter referred to as the “Designated Officer”).

(b)The  Designated  Officer  shall  be  charged  with  the
responsibility  of  the  administration,  collection  and
accountability  of  the  Special  Goods  and  Services  Tax
imposed  in  terms  of  this  Act  and  paid  as  provided  for  in
section 9.

(2) The  Secretary  to  the  Treasury  shall  assign  to  such
unit,  such  number  of  officers  attached  to  the  Ministry  of
Finance or any Department coming within the purview of
the Ministry of Finance as may be deemed necessary.

(3) The Designated Officer may delegate any power, duty
or  function  conferred  or  imposed  on,  or  assigned  to  him
under  this  Act  to  any  officer  assigned  in  terms  of
subsection (2).

20

25

30

After  Order
imposing  the
Special
Goods  and
Services  Tax
is  made,  no
tax  levied
under  the
enactments
set  out  in  the
Schedule
hereto    to  be
applicable

Deputy
Secretary  to
the  Treasury
to  be  charged
with  the
administration
and
collection  of
the  Special
Goods  and
Services  Tax

Special Goods and Services Tax

5

(4) The officer to whom such power, duty or function is
delegated shall, subject to the general and special direction
issued, from time to time, by the Designated Officer, exercise,
perform or discharge such power, duty or function.

6. The Special Goods and Services Tax shall be payable
by  every  manufacturer,  importer  or  service  provider
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  the  “taxable  person”),    of  any
specified  goods  or  service  set  out  in    subsection  (1)  of
section 2.

Liability  to
pay  the
Special
Goods  and
Services  Tax

7.  (1)  (a)  Any  taxable  person  who  is  engaged  in
manufacturing  or  importation  of  any  specified  goods  or
provision of any specified services on the date of the coming
in to operation of the Order made under subsection (3) of
section 2 shall, not later than fourteen days from the date of
operation  of  such  Order,  forward  an  application  for  the
registration as a taxable person  to the Designated Officer.

Registration
of  a  taxable
person  and
cancellation
of
registration

(b) A person who intends to manufacture or import any
specified goods or provide any specified services after the
date of the coming into operation of an Order made in terms
of subsection (3) of section 2 of this Act shall, prior to the
manufacture or import of any specified goods or the provision
of  any  specified  services,  forward  an  application  to  the
Designated Officer in the prescribed Form accompanied by
the prescribed fee and documents.

5

10

15

20

25

(c) The procedure to be followed for registration shall be

as prescribed by regulations.

(d) Upon receipt of such application for registration, the
Designated  Officer  shall  forthwith  proceed  to  register  the
person  as  a  taxable  person  subject  to  the  provisions  of
subsections (2) and (3).

30

6

Special Goods and Services Tax

5

10

15

20

(2)  The  Designated  Officer  may,  prior  to  registering    a
person as a taxable person where necessary call for further
information or documents to support the documents already
submitted  by  such  taxable  person  who  shall  provide  such
information and documents within the period specified by
the Designated Officer.

(3) The Designated Officer may, if there exists a reasonable
doubt on the genuineness of the information or documents
submitted, refuse to register the person as a taxable person
and  within  fourteen  days  of  making  such    decision  serve
such person with a written notice of such refusal stating the
reasons therefor.

(4) On receipt of notice of refusal under subsection (3),
such person may forward a request to the Secretary to the
Treasury  setting  out  further  reasons  and  documents  in
support of his application   within fourteen days of the receipt
by such person of the notice of refusal.

(5) The Secretary to the Treasury may, upon consideration
of  the  reasons  set  out  in  such  request  and  documents
submitted  under  subsection  (4),  determine  whether  the
taxable  person  is  eligible  for  registration,  and  proceed  to
register the person as a taxable person for the purposes of
this Act. The Secretary to the Treasury shall at the earliest
convenience inform the taxable person of his decision.

25

30

(6) Upon such registration, the Designated Officer shall
issue to such taxable person a Certificate of Registration in
the Form as may be prescribed by regulations. The Certificate
of Registration shall contain information on specified goods
or services covered by   such registration, and the period of
validity of such registration.

(7) The  Designated  Officer  shall  also  cause  to  be
maintained  a  register  of  taxable  persons  so  registered,  in
such form as may be prescribed by regulations.

Special Goods and Services Tax

7

(8) (a) Where-

(i) the  taxable  person  has  ceased  to  import  or
manufacture any specified goods or provide any
specified services referred to in subsection (1) of
section  2;

(ii) the  Minister  revokes  any  Order  made  under

subsection (3) of section 2; or

(iii) any Order made under subsection (3) of section
2 is deemed to be revoked under subsection (8)
of section 2,

the Designated Officer may after giving an opportunity to
make representation, cancel such  Certificate of Registration
issued  to  the  taxable  person  under  subsection  (6),  having
informed through a written communication signed by him
giving reasons for such cancellation.

(b)  Where  a  taxable  person  has  ceased  to  import  or
manufacture any specified goods or provide any specified
service referred to in  subsection (1) of section 2 for which
the registration was made, such taxable person to whom a
Certificate of Registration has been issued under subsection
(6),  may  apply  to  the  Designated  Officer  requesting  for  a
cancellation of such Certificate of Registration.

5

10

15

20

(9) From and after the date of the coming into operation
of  an  Order  made  under  subsection  (3)  of  section  2,  any
taxable person who–

25

(a)

imports  or  manufactures  any  specified  goods  or
provides  any  specified  service  to  which  this  Act
applies  without  obtaining  a  Certificate  of
Registration;

30

(b) makes a statement or a communication under this
Act  which  is  false  or  misleading  in  a  material
particular  relating  to  any  specified  goods  or
services; or

8

Special Goods and Services Tax

(c) willfully evades or attempts to evade payment of

the Special  Goods and Services Tax,

commits an offence and shall upon conviction after summary
trial be liable to a fine not exceeding rupees three million or
to imprisonment of either description for a term not less than
one year or to both such imprisonment and fine.

(10) For  the  avoidance  of  doubt,  a  taxable  person  may
import or manufacture any goods or provide any service to
which this Act does not apply, in which event a tax, duty,
levy, cess or any other charge imposed and  applicable in
terms of relevant applicable laws shall apply in respect of
such other goods and services not covered under this Act.

8. (1) Every taxable person who is registered under this
Act shall on or before the twentieth day of the month after
the end of each quarter, furnish a return in the prescribed
Form, to the Designated Officer along with-

Furnishing  of
returns  by  a
taxable
person

(a)

a  certificate  in  the  prescribed  Form  issued  by  a
qualified auditor confirming physical verification
of  the  related  inventory  pertaining  to  the  related
period;  and

(b) documents containing such particulars as may be
prescribed by regulations relating to the specified
goods  imported  or  manufactured  or  the  specified
services provided or raw materials purchased.

5

10

15

20

25

(2) (a) A returns shall not be required under subsection (1)
from a taxable person who has imported any specified goods
for the purpose of personal use by such person.

(b) For the purpose of this subsection “personal use” shall
means, a quantity not to be used for profit or commercial
gain under any enactment set out in the Schedule hereto.

30

Special Goods and Services Tax

9

(3) A  taxable  person  who  fails  to  file  a  return    under
subsection  (1)  commits  an  offence  and  shall  be  liable  on
conviction to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months or to
both such fine and imprisonment.

9. (1) The Special Goods and Services Tax, imposed under
section  2,  and  payable  by  a  taxable  person  shall  be  paid
directly  by  the  respective  taxable  person,  by  way  of  an
electronic fund transfer to an account opened and maintained
in the name of the Designated Officer for the purposes of this
Act, and such payment shall be deemed to be a credit to the
Consolidated  Fund.

Manner  of
payment  of
Special
Goods  and
Services  Tax

5

10

(2) Every taxable person who is liable to pay the Special
Goods  and  Services  Tax,  shall  make  such  payment  at  the
times and in the manner set out below–

15

(a)

a taxable person who imports any specified goods
shall  pay the Special Goods and Services Tax prior
to  the  removal  of  such  specified  goods  from  the
Customs warehouse or such other place where such
goods were stored immediately upon its importation
into Sri Lanka:

Provided that, for the purpose of computing the
Special  Goods  and  Services  Tax  the  date  of
importation  shall  be  deemed  to  be  the  date  of
submission  of  the  Bill  of  Entry  relating  to  such
goods  on  which  such  Tax  is  payable,  to  the  Sri
Lanka Customs;

a taxable person who manufactures any specified
goods  shall  pay  the  Special  Goods  and  Services
Tax  one  day  prior  to  the  day  such  manufactured
goods  leave  the  manufacturing  facility  of  such
manufacturer; or

a taxable person who provides any specified service
shall  pay  the  Special  Goods  and  Services  Tax,
before the tenth  day of every month in relation to
such service provided during the  previous month.

(b)

(c)

20

25

30

35

Verification
of  documents
by  the
Designated
Officer

10

Special Goods and Services Tax

(3) Any special Goods and Services Tax not paid as set

out above shall be deemed to be in default.

5

10

10. (1) Upon payment of the Special Goods and Services
Tax in the manner specified in section 9, the taxable person
shall  electronically  submit  to  an  email  address  of  the
Designated Officer as may be  prescribed by regulations, the
details of every payment so made,  in such Form as may be
specified  by  the  Designated  Officer,  along  with  scanned
copies  of    relevant  documents  on    the  importation  or
manufacture of specified goods, or the provision of specified
services, that would facilitate verification of the accuracy of
the  contents  in  such  Form.    The  Designated  Officer  shall
acknowledge  every  such  payment  and  receipt  of  relevant
documents within a reasonable time.

15

20

(2) (a) The Designated Officer shall, after verification of
information provided in terms of subsection (1) and in the
returns and accompanied documents in terms of  section 8,
determine and confirm that the Special Goods and Services
Tax payable by such taxable person in terms of this Act, has
been duly paid.

(b) If, upon the completion of such verification process,
the Designated Officer has reason to doubt the accuracy of
the particulars included in such Form  submitted in terms of
subsection (1) or the accompanying documents supporting
the information set out in such Form, the Designated Officer
may  require  the  taxable  person  or  the  authorised  agent  of
such  person  to  furnish  such  other  information,  including
documentary  or  other  evidence  as  proof  that  the  correct
amount payable as the Special Goods and Services Tax has
been  paid.

25

30

(3) In  the  process  of  such  verification,  the  Designated
Officer  may  call  for  further  information,  documents  or
assistance  from  the  Director-General  of  Customs,  the

Special Goods and Services Tax

11

Commissioner-General  of  Inland  Revenue,  the  Director-
General of Telecommunications,  the Commissioner-General
of Excise or such other relevant authority, as the case may
be,  who  shall  extend  such  assistance  as  required  by  the
Designated Officer notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in any other written laws, as a matter of priority, in the interest
of the national economy.

(4) Upon receipt of further information or in the absence
of any response, if the Designated Officer still has reasonable
doubt  as  to  the  correctness  or  accuracy  of  the  particulars
furnished the taxable person shall be informed in writing by
the Designated Officer of the grounds for such doubt and
shall  be  afforded  an  opportunity  of  submitting  a  written
statement in support of the position of the taxable person.

(5) The  Designated  Officer  shall  after  considering  the
representations,  if  any,  made  by  such  taxable  person,
determine the amount of Special Goods and Services Tax
payable,  on  the  relevant  specified  goods  or  services,  and
shall communicate his determination to the relevant taxable
person.  Such  taxable  person  shall  pay  in  full  any  balance
amount due as the Special Goods and Services Tax, being
the  difference  between  the  amount  already  paid  by  such
taxable person as the Special Goods and Service Tax and
the amount as determined by the Designated Officer as the
Special  Goods  and  Services  Tax  as  being  payable  after
verification. The notice containing the determination of the
Designated Officer shall be in writing, and shall include the
basis of the determination.

(6)  Where the amount paid by a taxable person as  the
Special Goods and Service Tax is found to be in excess of
the amount payable by the taxable person as determined by
the Designated Officer, the Designated Officer shall notify
the taxable person of the same and take steps to refund the

5

10

15

20

25

30

12

Special Goods and Services Tax

amount paid in excess to the taxable person. The procedure
and the manner to be followed in making refunds shall be as
prescribed by regulations.

(7) Any  taxable  person  who  is  aggrieved  by  the
determination of the Designated Officer  made in terms of
this section, may appeal against such decision to the Court
of Appeal within fourteen days from the date of service of
such determination to such taxable person.

11. (1) Where an appeal is preferred to the Court of Appeal,
the  appellant  shall  pay  the  total  amount  payable  as  the
Special  Goods  and  Services  Tax  as  determined  by  the
Designated Officer,  in terms of section 10, on the same day,
in the following manner:-

Appeals  from
determination
of  the
Designated
Officer

(a)

(b)

fifty per centum of the total amount payable, to be
paid into the account referred to in section 9; and

fifty per centum of the total amount payable, to  be
paid  by  way  of  a  bank  guarantee  issued  by  any
licenced  commercial  bank  payable  on  demand
issued in favour of the Designated Officer.

(2)  Such Bank Guarantee shall be valid or be validated
by  the  appellant  as  may  be  necessary,  until  the  appeal  is
determined by the Court of Appeal.

(3)  In the event the Court of Appeal determines the appeal
in  favour  of  the  Designated  Officer,  he  shall  upon  such
determination, make a claim on the bank guarantee to recover
the  sum  together  with  legal  interest  covering  the  entire
period during which the appeal was pending in the Court of
Appeal.

5

10

15

20

25

30

(4) Where the Court of Appeal determines the Appeal in
favour of the appellant, the Designated Officer shall as soon
as convenient, refund the sum paid in terms of paragraph (a)
of subsection (1), together with legal interest covering the

Special Goods and Services Tax

13

entire  period  during  which  the  appeal  was  pending  in  the
Court of Appeal and shall at the earliest possible period of
time, return the bank guarantee, given in terms of paragraph
(b) of subsection (1).

5

10

(5) When  no  valid  appeal  has  been  lodged  within  the
time  specified  in  subsection  (7)  of  section  10  against  a
determination of the Designated Officer, the balance amount
due as the Special Goods and Services Tax, and the relevant
penalty imposed on such Tax in terms of section 14 shall be
the Special Goods and Services Tax in default.

12. (1) Where any Special Goods and Services Tax is in
default,  the  Designated  Officer  shall  require  the
Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue to take suitable
and  expeditious  recovery  action,  and  the  Commissioner-
General  of  Inland  Revenue  shall  issue  a  Certificate  to  a
District Secretary, containing particulars of the Special Goods
and Services Tax in default and the name and address of the
defaulter and  the District Secretary to whom such Certificate
is issued is hereby required, to cause the Special Goods and
Services Tax in default  to be recovered from the defaulter
named in the Certificate,  by seizure and sale of movable
property.

(2) The seizure of movable property for the purposes of
this section shall be effected under the Civil Procedure Code
(Chapter  101)  in  such  manner  as  such    District  Secretary
shall deem most expedient in that behalf, and as soon as any
movable property is so seized by such District Secretary, a
list of such property shall forthwith be made and signed by
him and shall be given to the defaulter and a copy thereof be
furnished to the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue.

(3) Where the property so seized is-

(a)

cash in Sri Lanka Rupees, such cash shall be first
applied in the payment of the costs and charges of
seizing  and  any  balance  shall  be  applied  in
satisfaction of the Special Goods and Services Tax
in  default;

15

20

25

30

35

Procedure  to
be  followed
where  the
Special
Goods  and
Services  tax
is  in  default

14

Special Goods and Services Tax

5

10

15

20

(b)

cash  in  a  designated  foreign  currency,  such  cash
shall be deposited in any licensed commercial bank
and the proceeds there from applied in the payment
of the costs and charges of seizing and any balance
shall be  applied in satisfaction of the Special  Goods
and Services Tax in default; and

(c) movable  property  other  than  cash,  such  property
shall be kept for seven days as costs and charges of
the  defaulter.  If  the  defaulter  does  not  pay  the
Special Goods and Services Tax in default together
with  the  associated  costs  and  charges  within  the
said seven days, the District Secretary shall cause
such property to be sold by public auction, or where
such property is a negotiable instrument or a share
in any corporation or public company, to be sold
through a broker at the market rate of the day.

(4) The sum realized by a sale referred to in paragraph (c)

of subsection (3), shall be applied–

(a)

(b)

firstly,  in  payment  of  the  costs  and  charges  of
seizing,  keeping and selling   the property; and

secondly, in satisfaction of the Special Goods and
Services Tax  in default, and any balance shall be
paid to the owner of the property so seized.

25

(5) It shall be lawful for the District Secretary to recover
from any defaulter, reasonable expenses incurred by him in
proceeding  against  such  defaulter  under  this  section,
notwithstanding that no seizure of property was effected.

(6) For  the  purpose  of  subsection  (3),  the  expression
“movable property” includes any plant or machinery affixed
to the ground of a factory.

30

(7) Where  any  Special  Goods  and  Services  Tax  is  in
default and the Commissioner-General is of the opinion that

Special Goods and Services Tax

15

the  recovery  by  the  means  provided  in  subsection  (1)  is
impracticable or inexpedient, he may issue a certificate to a
District Court having jurisdiction in any district where the
defaulter  resides  or  in  which  any  property,  movable  or
immovable, owned by the defaulter is situated, containing
particulars of  the Special Goods and Services Tax in default,
and  the  name  and  address  of  the  defaulter    by  whom  the
Special Goods and Services Tax  is payable, and the courts
shall  thereupon  direct  a  writ  of  execution  to  issue  to  the
Fiscal, authorizing and requiring him to seize and sell all or
any of the property, movable or immovable, of the defaulter,
or such part thereof as he may deem necessary for the recovery
of the Special Goods and Services Tax in default, and the
provisions  of  sections  226  to  297  of  the  Civil  Procedure
Code (Chapter 101) shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such
seizure and sale.

(8)  Whenever  the  Commissioner-General  of  Inland
Revenue issues a Certificate under this section, he shall at
the same time issue to the defaulter whether resident or non-
resident, a notification thereof by registered post. The non-
receipt  of  such  notification  by  the  defaulter  shall  not
invalidate proceedings under this section.

13.  (1)  (a)  Where  the  Commissioner-General  of  Inland
Revenue is of the opinion in any case that recovery of the
Special Goods and Services Tax in default by seizure and
sale is impracticable or inexpedient, or where the full amount
of the Special Goods and Services Tax  in default has not
been collected, the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue
may issue a certificate containing particulars of the amount
of the Special Goods and Services Tax  in default and the
name and last known place of business or residence of the
defaulter  to  a  Magistrate  having  jurisdiction  over  the
division in which the defaulter resides or is carrying out the
business.

Recovery  of
default
Special
Goods  and
Services
taxes  where
seizure  or
sale  is
impracticable

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

(b) The  Magistrate  shall,  on  receipt  of  the  Certificate
issued under subsection (1), issue summons on the defaulter

16

Special Goods and Services Tax

5

10

requiring him to appear before him on a date to be specified
to show cause, as to why further proceedings for the recovery
of  the  Tax  in  default  should  not  be  justified  against  such
defaulter and if sufficient cause is not shown, the Special
Goods and Services Tax in default shall be deemed to be a
fine imposed by a sentence of the Magistrate on such defaulter
for an offence punishable with fine only or not punishable
with imprisonment, and the provisions of subsection (1) of
section 291 (except paragraphs (a), (d) and (i) thereof) of the
Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, relating to
default  of  payment  of  a  fine  imposed  for  such  an  offence
shall  thereupon  apply,  and  the  Magistrate  may  make  any
direction  which,  by  the  provisions  of  that  subsection,  he
could have made at the time of imposing such sentence.

15

(2) Nothing in subsections (2) to (5) of section 291 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall apply
in any case referred to in subsection (1).

20

(3) In any case referred to in subsection (1) in which the
defaulter is sentenced to imprisonment in default of payment
of the fine deemed by that subsection to have been imposed
on  the  defaulter    the  Magistrate  may  allow  time  not
exceeding twelve months, for the payment of the amount of
the said fine or direct payment of that amount to be made by
instalments.

25

30

(4) The  Court  may  be  required  bail  to  be  given  as  a
condition precedent for allowing time under subsection (1)
for showing cause as therein provided or under subsection
(3) for the payment of the fine; and the provisions of Chapter
XXXIV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of
1979,  shall  apply  where  the  defaulter  is  so  required  to  be
given  bail.

(5) Where  payment  in  installments  is  directed  under
subsection  (3)  and  default  is  made  in  the  payment  of  any
one  installment,  the  same  proceedings  may  be  taken  as  if
default  had  been  made  in  payment  of  all  the  installments
then remaining unpaid.

35

Special Goods and Services Tax

17

(6) In any proceeding under subsection (1), the certificate
of the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue  shall be
sufficient evidence that the Special Goods and Services Tax
is in default, and any plea that the Special Goods and Services
Tax  is  excessive,  incorrect,  or  under  appeal  shall  not  be
entertained.

14. A  taxable  person  who  fails  to  pay  all  or  part  of  a
Special Goods and Services Tax required under this Act on
the date referred to in subsection (2) of section 9 or on or
before the due date as may be specified in the notice referred
to in subsection (5) of section 10, shall be liable to a penalty
equal to ten per centum of the amount of total due .

Penalty  on
late  payment

15. (1) Except as provided for in subsection (3), (4) or (5)
every person having a duty under this Act or being employed
in the administration of this Act, shall regard as secret and
confidential all information and documents the person has
received in an official capacity in relation to a taxable person,
and  may  disclose  that  information  only  to  the  following
persons: -

Official
secrecy

5

10

15

20

(a)

the employees who are carrying out their duties as
provided in this Act;

25

30

(b)

(c)

(d)

the Minister in the course, and for the purpose, of
carrying out supervision of the Director-General of
Customs,  the  Commissioner-General  of  Inland
Revenue, the Commissioner-General of Excise, the
Director-General  of  Telecommunications  or  the
Head of any other relevant authority;

the  Auditor-General  or  any  person  authorised  by
the Auditor-General, only when such disclosure is
necessary for the purposes of official duties;

tax authorities of a foreign country, in accordance
with an international agreement entered into with a
specific  authority;

18

Special Goods and Services Tax

(e)

the  Attorney-General  for  the  purpose  of  any
criminal  proceedings  or  civil  proceedings  where
actions are instituted by the State or actions filed
against the State or where the opinion or advice of
the  Attorney-General  has  been  sought  in  writing
by  the  authorized  institution;

5

(f)

a  court,  in  a  proceeding  to  establish  a  taxable
person’s  tax  liability  or  responsibility  for  an
offence;

10

(g)

the Head of the Department of Foreign Exchange
for the purpose of prosecuting violations under the
Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017;

(h)

(i)

a  Commission  appointed  under  the  Commissions
of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393)  in an investigation
into the affairs of any person or any person’s spouse
or child; and

the  Commission  to  Investigate  Allegations  of
Bribery  or  Corruption  established  under  the
Commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery
or Corruption Act, No. 19 of 1994.

15

20

(2) A  person  who  is  permitted  to  disclose  information
under  subsection  (1)  shall  maintain  secrecy  except  to  the
minimum extent necessary to achieve the object for which
disclosure is permitted.

25

(3) A person who receives information under subsection
(1)  shall  maintain  secrecy  except  to  the  minimum  extent
necessary to achieve the object for which the information
was received.

30

(4) The  Designated  Officer  may  disclose  information
concerning a taxable person’s affairs to the taxable person
or the taxable person’s authorised agent only after obtaining
reasonable assurance of the authenticity of the claim.

Liability  of
the  body
corporate,
member  or
partner  of  the
body
corporate

Special Goods and Services Tax

19

(5)  Information  concerning  a  taxable  person  may  be
disclosed to another person with the written consent of the
taxable person.

5

(6) The obligation as to secrecy imposed by this section
shall  continue  to  apply    in  respect  of  any  person
notwithstanding that the person ceases to be appointed under
or employed in carrying out the provisions of this Act.

16. Where any amount of the Special  Goods and Services

Tax is  in default then-

(a) if the defaulter is a body corporate, every person who
at the time when the Special Goods and Services Tax
is in default was a Director, Secretary or similar officer
of that body; or

(b) if  the  defaulter  is  a  body  which  is  not  a  body
corporate, every person who, at the time when the
Special Goods and Services Tax  is in default was a
member or partner of that body,

shall  be  deemed  to  be  personally  liable  unless  he  proves
that the Special Goods and Services Tax  is in default without
his knowledge or that he exercised due diligence to ensure
the payment of the Special Goods and Services Tax  that was
due.

10

15

20

25

17. (1) All expenses incurred by the Designated Officer,
or any officer authorized by him in any suit or prosecution
brought by or against him before any court, shall be paid out
of the Consolidated Fund and only costs paid to or recovered
by the Designated Officer or any officer authorized by him
in  any  such  suit  or  prosecution,  shall  be  credited  to  the
Consolidated  Fund.

Expenses  to
be  paid  out
of  the
Consolidated
Fund

30

35

(2) Any expenses incurred by the Designated Officer, or
any  officer  authorized  by  him  in  any  suit  or  prosecution
brought by or against him before any court in respect of any
act which is done or purported to be done by him under this
Act shall, if the court holds that such act was done in good
faith,  be  paid  out  of  the  Consolidated  Fund,  unless  such
expenses are recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

20

Special Goods and Services Tax

18. Where any tax, duty, levy, cess or any other charge
imposed  in  respect  of  any  specified  goods  or  services  is
payable in terms of any enactment set out in the Schedule
hereto on the day prior to the coming into operation of an
Order  made  under  subsection  (3)  of    section  2,  such  tax,
duty,  levy,  cess  or  any  other  charge  shall  continue  to  be
recoverable  in  terms  of  such  enactments  notwithstanding
the making of an Order under subsection (3) of section 2.

5

Transitional
provision

10

19. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed or
in respect of which regulations are required or authorized to
be made under this Act.

Regulations

(2) Without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  the  powers
conferred  by  subsection  (1),  the  Minister  may  make
regulations in respect of the following matters:-

15

20

(a) Email address of the Designated Officer;

(b)

(c)

(d)

the  Form,  fees  and  procedure  to  be  followed  for
registration of an importer,  a manufacturer or  a
service  provider  who  is  liable  to  pay  the  Special
Goods and Services Tax under this  Act;

the  Form  of  the  certificate  of  registration  to  be
issued to the taxable person;

the  Form  of  the  certificate  issued  by  a  qualified
auditor for the purposes of section 8;

25

(e)

the  particulars  to  be  contained  in  the  documents
for the purposes of section 8;

(f)

the procedure and manner to be followed in making
the  request  for  a  refund  the  amount  of  paid  by  a
taxable person as the Special Goods and Services
Tax in  excess of the actual amount which ought to
have been paid;

30

Special Goods and Services Tax

21

5

10

15

20

(g)

the procedure to be followed by the Director-General
of Customs, the Commissioner- General of Inland
Revenue, the Commissioner-General of Excise, the
Director-General  of    Telecommunications  or  the
Head of such other relevant authority for the purpose
of  providing  information  on    any  specified  goods
imported or manufactured or any specified service
provided by any taxable person; and

(h) providing  for  any  matter  which  is  required  to  be
prescribed  or  in  respect  of  which  regulations  are
authorized to be made under this Act.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1), shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the  date  of  publication,  or  on  such  later  date  as  may  be
specified therein.

(4) Every regulation made under subsection (1), shall not
later than three months after its publication in the Gazette,
be placed before Parliament for approval. Every regulation
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as
from  the  date  of  disapproval,  but  without  prejudice  to
anything  previously  done  thereunder.

(5) Notification  of  the  date  on  which  any  regulation  is
deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

20. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-

Interpretation

25

“authorized agent” means -

(a)

any individual specified in items (i), (ii)
and (iii) who is authorized in writing by a
taxable person to act on his behalf for the
purpose of this Act-

22

Special Goods and Services Tax

5

10

(i)

a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri
Lanka established under section
2  of  the  Institute  of  Chartered
Accountants Act, No. 23 of 1959;

(ii)

an Attorney-at-Law; or

(iii)

an employee regularly employed
by that person;

(b) where the taxable person is an individual, a relative
who is authorized in writing by the taxable person
to act on his behalf for the purpose of this Act;

(c) where  the  taxable  person  is  a  company  which  is
incorporated in or outside Sri Lanka, the Director,
Secretary or Principal Officer of the company;

15

(d) where the taxable person is a partnership, a partner;

(e) where the taxable person is a trust, a trustee;

(f) where the taxable person is a body of persons other
than  a  partnership  or  company,  an  individual
responsible  for  accounting  for    the  receipt  and
payment of moneys from the  funds on behalf of the
body of persons;

(g) where the taxable person is a non-resident, a person
controlling  the  person’s  affairs  in  Sri  Lanka,
including a manager of a business of that person in
Sri Lanka;

20

25

“Commissioner-General  of  Excise”  means,  the
Commissioner-General  of  Excise  appointed
under the provisions of section 7 of the Excise
Ordinance (Chapter 52);

Special Goods and Services Tax

23

5

10

15

20

“Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue” means, the
Commissioner-General  of  Inland  Revenue
appointed under the provisions of section 97 of
the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;

“Director-General  of  Customs”  means,  the  Director-
General  of  Customs  appointed  under  the
provisions of section 2 of the Customs Ordinance
(Chapter 235);

“Director-General  of  Telecommunications”  means  the
Director-General  of  Telecommunications
appointed  under  the  provisions  of  section  22B
of Sri Lanka Telecommunications Act, No. 25
of 1991;

“licenced commercial bank” means, a bank licenced under
the  provisions  of  the  Banking  Act,  No.  30  of
1988;

“Liquor” includes spirits of wine, spirits, wine, toddy, beer
and  all  liquid  consisting  of  or  containing
alcohol; also any substance which the Minister
may by notification declare to be considered as
Liquor for the purposes of this Act;

“Minister” means, the Minister to whom this Act is assigned

under Article 44 or 45 of the Constitution;

“qualified  auditor”  means–

25

(a)

30

(b)

35

an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of  Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  of  any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or

a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of  which,  being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute; and

24

Special Goods and Services Tax

“quarter” means, the period of three months commencing
on the first day of January, the first day of April,
the first day of July, and the first day of October
of each year.

5

21.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala Text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

SCHEDULE

(sections  2,3,4,8  and  18)

Colum  I
Name  of  the  Enactment

  Colum  II
Respective    Tax

1. The  Excise  Ordinance  (Chapter  52)

Excise  Duty

2. The  Excise  (Special  Provisions)

Excise  Duty

Act,  No.  13  of  1989

3. The  Telecommunication  Levy

Act,  No.  21  of  2011

Telecommunication
Levy

4.

Finance  Act,  No.  35  of  2018

(i) Cellular 
Levy

Tower

(ii) Luxury  Tax  on
Motor  Vehicle

(iii) Levy  on  Mobile

Short  Messages
Services

(iv)    Vehicle  Entitlement

Levy

5. The  Betting  and  Gaming  Levy

Act,  No.  40  of  1988

Levy  on  gross  collection

6. The  Customs  Ordinance  (Chapter  235) Customs  Duty

7. The  Sri  Lanka  Export  Development

Cess

Act,  No.  40  of  1979

8. The  Ports  and  Airports  Development Port  and  Airport

Act,  No.  18  of  2011

Development  Levy

Special Goods and Services Tax

25

Department  of  Government  Printing

