THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of August 05, 2022

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 10.08.2022)

JUDICATURE  (AMENDMENT)

A

BILL

to amend the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978

Ordered to be published by the Minister of Justice, Prison Affairs and
Constitutional  Reforms

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 45.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

STATEMENT  OF  LEGAL  EFFECT

Clause 2 : This clause amends section 2 of the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978 (hereinafter
referred  to  as  the  “principal  enactment”)  and  the  legal  effect  of  that  section  as  amended  is
to  include  the  High  Courts  for  the  Provinces  established  by  Article  154P  of  the  Constitution
and  the  Small  Claims  Courts  as  Courts  of  First  Instance.

Clause  3  :  This  clause  replaces  section  5  of  the  principal  enactment  and  the  legal  effect
of  that  section  as  replaced  is  to  establish  in  each  judicial  district  of  Sri  Lanka  a  “District
Court” which shall be deemed to be “a Family Court” or “a Small Claims Court” as the case
may  be  and  Magistrate’s  Court  and  Primary  Court  and  to  appoint  a  “District  Judge”,
“Judge  of  the  Family  Court”,  “Judge  of  the  Small  Claims  Court”,  “Magistrate”  and  “Judge
of  the  Primary  Court”  respectively.

Clause 4 :  This clause replaces section 5B of the principal enactment and the legal effect
of that section as replaced is to enable the Judicial Service Commission to appoint a judicial
officer  to  be  called  the  Pre-Trial  Judge,  to  the  Court  of  First  Instance  exercising  civil
jurisdiction.

Clause  5  :  This  clause  amends  section  6  of  the  principal  enactment  and  the  legal  effect
of  that  section  as  amended  is  to  enable  the  Judicial  Service  Commission  to  appoint  all
Judges  of  the  District  Courts,  Family  Courts,  Small  Claims  Courts,  Primary  Courts  and
Magistrates  and  all  such  Additional  Judges  and  Magistrates  of  such  courts.

Clause  6  :  This  clause  amends  section  8  of  the  principal  enactment  and  the  legal  effect
of that section as amended is to enable the Judicial Service Commission to appoint Additional
Judges  of  the  Family  Courts  and  Additional  Judges  of  Primary  Courts  in  addition  to  the
Additional  Judges  of  District  Courts,  Small  Claims  Court  and  Additional  Magistrates  of
Magistrate’s  Courts.

Clause  7  :  This  clause  replaces  section  19  of  the  principal  enactment  and  the  legal
effect  of  that  section  as  replaced  is  to  set  out  the  jurisdiction  of  the  District  Court  by
omitting  the  matrimonial  jurisdiction  and  jurisdiction  over  the  estates  of  minors  and  also
to  exclude  the  application  of  the  jurisdiction  to  Chapter  VA  of  this  Act.

Clause  8  :  This  clause  replaces  section  19A  of  the  principal  enactment  and  the  legal
effect of that section as replaced is to omit the provisions which set out the civil jurisdiction
of  the  District  Courts  before  these  amendments  to  the  principal  enactment.

Clause  9  :  This  clause  replaces  Chapter  V  of  the  principal  enactment  and  the  legal

effect  of  that  Chapter  as  replaced  is  to  set  out  the  provisions  relating  to  Family  Courts.

Clause  10  :  This  clause  inserts  a  new  Chapter  VA  to  the  principal  enactment  and  the
legal  effect  of  that  Chapter  as  inserted  is  to  make  provisions  to  introduce  Small  Claims
Court.

Clause  11  :  This  clause  inserts  a  new  Chapter  VII  in  the  principal  enactment,  and  the
legal  effect  of  that  Chapter  as  inserted  is  to  make  provisions  to  introduce  Primary  Court.

Clause  12  :  This  clause  replaces  section  37  of  the  principal  enactment  and  the  legal
effect  of  that  section  as  replaced  is  to  confer  the  right  of  appeal  to  the  Supreme  Court  from
any  judgment  or  order  of  the  Court  of  Appeal  in  any  appeal  from  the  High  Court,  District
Courts,  Family  Courts,  Small  Claims  Courts,  Magistrates’  Courts  or  Primary  Courts.

Clause  13  :  This  clause  amends  section  45  of  the  principal  enactment  and  the  legal
effect  of  that  section  as  amended  is  to  provide  for  the  Justices  of  the  Peace  and  Unofficial
Magistrates  to  take  and  subscribe  or  make  and  subscribe  an  oath  or  affirmation  of  office
before  a  Judge  of  a  High  Court,  Judge  of  a  District  Court,  Judge  of  a  Family  Court,  Judge
of  a  Small  Claims  Court,  Magistrate  or  a  Judge  of  a  Primary  Court.

Clause  14  :  This  clause  amends  section  49  of  the  principal  enactment  and  the  legal
effect  of  that  section  as  amended  is  to  make  provisions  where  any  Judge  of  a  High  Court,
Judge  of  a  District  Court,  Judge  of  a  Family  Court,  Judge  of  a    Small  Claims  Court,
Magistrate    or  a  Judge  of  a  Primary  Court  is  a  party  or  personally  interested  in  any  action
etc,  some  other  Judge  of  the  relevant  Court  of  any  adjoining  zone,  district  or  division  to
have  jurisdiction  to  hear,  try  and  determine  such  action  etc.

Clause  15  :  This  clause  amends  section  52  of  the  principal  enactment  and  the  legal
effect  of  the  section  as  amended  is  to  make  provisions  to  include  Family  Courts  and
Primary  Courts  into  this  section.

Clause  16  :  This  clause  amends  section  54  of  the  principal  enactment  and  the  legal
effect  of  the  section  as  amended  is  to  make  provisions  to  include  Family  Court  into  this
section.

Clause  17  :  This  clause  replaces  section  55  of  the  principal  enactment  and  the  legal
effect  of  that  section  as  replaced  is  to  make  provisions  for  the  contempt  proceedings  of
every  District  Court,  Family  Court,  Small  Claims  Court,  Magistrate’s  Court  and  Primary
Court.

Clause  18  :  This  clause  inserts  a  new  section  57  in  the  principal  enactment  and  the  legal
effect  of  that  section  as  inserted  is  to  make  provisions  where  a  Judge  of  a  Primary  Court  is
not  appointed.

Clause  19  :  This  clause  inserts  a  Third  Schedule  and  Fourth  Schedule  in  the  principal
enactment  and  the  legal  effect  of  the  amendment  is,  in  the  Third  Schedule  to  state  in  the
Enactments  in  which  wherever  a  court  is  referred  to,  that  court  is  to  be  the  Family  Court
and  in  the  Fourth  Schedule  to  set  out  the  actions  which  are  excluded  from  the  jurisdiction
of  Primary  Courts.

Clause  20  :  This  clause  inserts  a  Seventh  Schedule  in  the  principal  enactment  and  the
legal effect of that Schedule as inserted is to set out the actions that are referred to in section
29A  (2)  of  the  principal  enactment.

Judicature (Amendment)

1

L.D.–O. 45/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE JUDICATURE ACT, NO. 2 OF 1978

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1)  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Judicature

(Amendment) Act, No.     of 2022.

Short  title
and  date  of
operation

5

(2) The provisions of this Act shall come into operation
on such date or dates as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette.

(3)  Different  dates  may  be  appointed  for  bringing  into

operation different provisions of this Act.

10

2.  Section  2  of  the  Judicature  Act,  No.  2  of  1978,
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

Replacement
of  section  2
of  Act,  No.  2
of  1978

“The  Courts
of  First
Instance

15

2. The  Courts  of  First  Instance  for  the
administration of justice in the Republic of Sri
Lanka shall be-

20

(a)

(b)

the  High  Court  of  the  Republic  of
Sri Lanka;

the  High  Courts  for  the  Provinces
established  by  Article  154P  of  the
Constitution;

(c)

the District Courts;

(d)

the Family Courts;

(e)

the Small Claims Courts;

(f)

the Magistrates’ Courts; and

25

(g)

the Primary Courts.”.

Replacement
of  section  5
of  the
principal
enactment

2

Judicature (Amendment)

3. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed

and the following section is substituted therefor: -

“District
Courts,
Family
Courts,  Small
Claims
Courts,
Magistrates’
Courts  and
Primary
Courts

5

10

15

20

25

5. (1) There shall be in each judicial district
of Sri Lanka a “District Court” which shall be
deemed  to  be  the  “Family  Court”  when
exercising the jurisdiction vested in a Family
Court under this Act or any written law, and
which shall be deemed to be the “Small Claims
Court” when exercising the jurisdiction vested
in a Small Claims Court under this Act or any
other written law, and in every judicial division
there  shall  be  a  “Magistrate’s  Court”  and  a
“Primary Court” and, each such Court shall be
holden by and before a person to be called the
“District Judge”, “Judge of the Family Court”,
“Judge  of  the  Small  Claims  Court”,
“Magistrate” and “Judge of the Primary Court”
respectively.

(2) Each Court referred to in subsection (1)
may be held at such convenient place or places
within such judicial district or division, as the
case may be, as the Minister shall, by regulation
from time to time appoint:

Provided that nothing in this section shall
be  construed  to  restrict  or  curtail  the  power
possessed by every Judge to hold the Court at
any  convenient  place  within  his  territorial
jurisdiction.”.

4. Section 5B of the principal enactment is hereby repealed

30

and the following section is substituted therefor: -

Replacement
of  section  5B
of  the
principal
enactment

“Appointment
of  the  Pre-
Trial  Judge

Judicature (Amendment)

3

5B.  (1)  The  Judicial  Service  Commission
shall appoint a judicial officer from among the
District  Judges  and  Magistrates  to  be  called
the Pre-Trial Judge, to any one or more Court
of  First  Instance  exercising  civil  jurisdiction,
where  the  Judicial  Service  Commission  is  of
the opinion that such appointment is required.

(2) The Pre-Trial Judge shall attend to and
deal with pre-trial conferences as specified in
the  provisions  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code
(Chapter 101) and post-trial matters assigned
by  the  Judicial  Service  Commission  which
have arisen in the course of a civil proceeding
instituted  in  the  Court  to  which  he  is
appointed.”.

5. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and the substitution
therefor, of the following: -

Amendment
of  section  6
of  the
principal
enactment

“(1)  All  District  Judges,  Judges  of  the  Family
Courts,  Judges  of  the  Small  Claims  Courts,
Magistrates and Judges of the Primary Courts and all
such Additional Judges and Additional Magistrates
of such Courts shall be appointed to their offices by
the Judicial Service Commission.”.

5

10

15

20

25

6. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by  the  repeal  of  subsections  (1)  and  (2)  thereof  and  the
substitution therefor, of the following: -

Amendment
of  section  8
of  the
principal
enactment

“(1)  The  Judicial  Service  Commission  may
appoint  as  many  additional  District  Judges,
Additional  Judges  of  the  Family  Court,  Additional
Judges  of  the  Small  Claims  Court,  Additional
Magistrates or Additional Judges of the Primary Court
to the same District Court, Family Court, Small Claims
Court,  Magistrate’s  Court,  and  Primary  Court
respectively as the occasion may require.

30

35

4

Judicature (Amendment)

5

10

(2)  Every Additional District Judge, Additional
Judge of the Family Court, Additional Judge of the
Small  Claims  Court,  Additional  Magistrate,  or
Additional Judge of the Primary Court  appointed to
any such Court, shall sit separately and exercise all
the powers and the jurisdiction vested in the District
Court,  Family  Court,  Small  Claims  Court,
Magistrate’s Court and Primary Court, respectively,
of  that  district  or  division,  as  the  case  may  be,  for
which  such  Additional  District  Judge,  Additional
Judge of the Family Court, Additional Judge of the
Small  Claims  Court,  Additional  Magistrate  or
Additional  Judge  of  the  Primary  Court,  is  so
appointed.”.

15

7. Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed

and the following section is substituted therefor: -

“Jurisdiction
of  a  District
Court

20

25

30

19. Every District Court shall be a court of
record  and  shall  within  its  district  have
unlimited  original  jurisdiction  in  all  civil,
revenue,  trust,  insolvency  and  testamentary
matters, save and except such of the aforesaid
matters as are by or under Chapter VA of this
Act or by virtue of the provisions of any other
enactment  exclusively  assigned  by  way  of
original jurisdiction to any other court or vested
in  any  other  authority  and  in  the  exercise  of
such jurisdiction to impose fines, penalties and
forfeitures and shall, in like manner also have
jurisdiction  over  the  persons  and  estates  of
persons of unsound mind and wards, over the
estates of cestuis que trust and over guardians
and trustees and in any other matter in which
jurisdiction is given to District Court by law.”.

Replacement
of  section  19
of  the
principal
enactment

Judicature (Amendment)

5

8. Section  19A  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby

repealed.

9. Chapter V of the principal enactment is hereby repealed

and the following Chapter is substituted therefor: -

Repeal  of
section  19A
of  the
principal
enactment

Replacement
of  Chapter  V
of  the
principal
enactment

Jurisdiction
of  Family
Courts

“CHAPTER V

FAMILY  COURTS

24. (1) Every Family Court shall be a court
of  record  and  shall  have  sole  original
jurisdiction in respect of matrimonial disputes,
actions  for  divorce,  nullity  and  separation,
damages  for  adultery,  claims  for  alimony,
disputes between spouses, parents and children
as to matrimonial property, custody of minor
children,  dependents’  claims,  guardianship
and  curatorship  matters,  claims  in  respect  of
declaration of legitimacy and, illegitimacy and
marriage,  adoption  and  applications  for
amendment of birth registration entries, claims
for seduction and breach of promise of marriage
and  such  other  matters  provided  for  by  any
other written law:

Provided  that  anything  in  the  preceding
provisions  of  this  subsection  shall  not  affect
the  provisions  of  the  Kandyan  Marriage  and
Divorce Act (Chapter 113) and the provisions
of  the  Muslim  Marriage  and  Divorce  Act
(Chapter 115).

(2) The Family Court shall also have sole
and  exclusive  jurisdiction  in  respect  of  all
matters specified in subsection (1) and where

5

10

15

20

25

30

6

Judicature (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

Care  of
minors,  and
charge  of
their
property

reference  is  made  to  any  court  in  respect  of
such matters in any of the enactments referred
to  in  the  Third  Schedule  hereto,  it  shall  be
deemed to be a reference to a Family Court:

Provided that this subsection shall have no
application  to  any  offences  alleged  to  have
been committed in violation of the provisions
of any such enactment.

(3) An application for the custody of a minor
child or of the spouse of any marriage alleged
to  be  kept  in  wrongful  or  illegal  custody  by
any parent or by the other spouse or guardian
or relative of such minor child or spouse shall
be heard or determined by the Family Court;
and  such  Court  shall  have  full  power  and
jurisdiction  to  hear  and  determine  the  same
and make such orders both interim and final as
the justice of the case shall require.

25. The jurisdiction and powers of District
Courts under section 20 as regards the care and
custody  of  persons  of  unsound  mind  and
mentally  deficient  persons  and  the  charge  of
their  property  shall,  in  like  manner  and  with
the same powers be exercised by a Family Court
as regards the care of the persons of minors and
wards and the charge of their property and shall
extend  to  the  charge  of  the  property  in  Sri
Lanka of minors and wards who are not resident
in Sri Lanka.

30 Family

Counsellor

26.  (1)  There  shall  be  for  every  judicial
district  an  officer  who  shall  be  called  the
“Family Counsellor”.

Judicature (Amendment)

7

(2) Where a dispute in any action in respect
of any matter within the jurisdiction of a Family
Court,  or  any  application  for  maintenance,
comes up for inquiry or trial before a District
Judge, Judge of the Family Court or Magistrate,
as the case may be, such District Judge, Judge
of the Family Court or Magistrate shall, unless
any party to the action expresses in writing a
desire to the contrary, refer such dispute to a
Family Counsellor, who shall-

(a)

(b)

make  every  effort  to  induce  the
parties to settle such dispute; and

submit  his  report  thereon  to  the
District  Judge,  Judge  of  the
Family Court or Magistrate as the
case may be, within such time as
may be specified by such District
Judge, Judge of the Family Court
or Magistrate.

(3) Where any dispute is settled, the terms
of settlement shall be entered, signed by each
party to the dispute and the Family Counsellor,
and be forwarded to the District Judge, Judge
of the Family Court or Magistrate as the case
may be who shall enter such terms of settlement
as a decree of such Court.

(4) Where a Family Counsellor is not able
to settle any dispute referred to in subsection
(1), he shall refer such dispute to the District
Judge, Judge of the Family Court or Magistrate
for determination after inquiry or trial.

(5)  No  District  Judge,  Judge  of  a  Family
Court or Magistrate shall hold any inquiry or
trial  in  respect  of  any  dispute,  until  such

5

10

15

20

25

30

8

Judicature (Amendment)

dispute  is  referred  to  him  by  the  Family
Counsellor under subsection (4).

27.  A  person  who  is  dissatisfied  with  a
judgment, decree or order pronounced by the
Family  Court  after  inquiry  or  trial  may,  in
accordance  with  any  law,  regulation  or  rule
governing  the  manner  and  procedure  for
appeals from the District Court, prefer an appeal
therefrom to the Court of Appeal for any error
in law or in fact.

28. (1) In the event of two or more separate
proceedings  or  actions  being  instituted  in
respect of the same or substantially the same
family dispute in more than one Family Court,
any party to such proceedings or actions may
apply, or any Judge of such Family Court in
which the said proceedings or actions had been
instituted may refer the matter, to the Court of
Appeal  which  shall,  in  the  exercise  of  its
powers, as it may deem fit, transfer one or more
of  such  proceedings  or  actions  to  one  of  the
Family Courts, in which proceedings or actions
have already been instituted by the said parties;
so that, all such disputes may be conveniently
or expeditiously heard and determined in one
Family Court.

(2) In the event of there being two or more
proceedings  or  actions  instituted  or  pending
in the same Family Court as between the same
parties  or  relating  to  substantially  the  same
matter, it shall be competent for the said Court
to  direct  that  such  proceedings  or  actions  be
consolidated into a single proceeding, if in the
opinion of the said Court it is convenient to do
so or it be so necessary in the interest of justice
and  the  expeditious  disposal  of  such  matters

Appeals

Transfer
cases  from
one  Family
Court  to
another  and
consolidation

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

Judicature (Amendment)

9

in  dispute.  The  Court  may,  in  such  an  event
make such order or deliver such judgment or
enter  such  decree  from  time  to  time  as  the
exigencies and justice of the case may require.

5

Procedure  in
Family
Courts

29. (1) All proceedings in a Family Court
shall  be  instituted  and  conducted  as
expeditiously  as  possible  in  accordance  with
such regulations as may be prescribed:

10

15

20

25

Provided that until such regulations have
been so prescribed, the Family Court shall, as
far as practicable, follow the provisions relating
to summary procedure in the Civil Procedure
Code (Chapter 101).

(2)  The  provisions  of  the  Adoption  of
Children  Ordinance  (Chapter  61)  governing
the institution and conducting of proceedings
under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to
apply  to  such  proceedings  that  may  be
instituted in the Family Court.

(3) All applications for the care and custody
of minor children shall take precedence over
all  other  matters  in  every  Family  Court  and
shall,  unless  exceptional  circumstances  so
warrant, be heard from day to day to ensure the
expeditious disposal of the same.”.

10.  The  following  new  Chapter  is  hereby  inserted
immediately after Chapter V of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as Chapter VA of that enactment: -

Insertion  of
new  Chapter
VA  in  the
principal
enactment

10

Judicature (Amendment)

“CHAPTER VA

SMALL CLAIMS COURTS

29A. (1) Every Small Claims Court shall be
a  court  of  record  and  shall  have  exclusive
original  civil  jurisdiction  and  shall  have
cognizance  of  and  full  power  to  hear  and
determine all actions specified in the Seventh
Schedule  hereto:

Provided however, a Small Claims Court
shall have no jurisdiction or power to hear and
determine any action filed under the provisions
of  Chapter  LIII  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code
(Chapter  101)  or  action  for  the  recovery  of
money  to  which  special  provisions  are  made
under any other written law.

(2)  All  actions  specified  in  the  Seventh
Schedule shall not exceed a sum of rupees one
million and five hundred thousand excluding
interest, or such other amount as may be fixed
by the Minister from time to time, by an Order
published in the Gazette.

(3) An Order made under subsection (2) shall
not  have  effect,  until  it  is  approved  by
Parliament  and  notification  of  such  approval
is published in the Gazette.

Jurisdiction
of  Small
Claims
Courts

5

10

15

20

25

30

Procedure
before  the
Small  Claims
Courts

29B.  The  proceedings  before  any  Small
Claims  Court  may  be  taken  by  the  special
procedure for Small Claims Court as provided
in  the  Small  Claims  Courts’  Procedure  Act,
No.     of 2022 and any other written law.

Judicature (Amendment)

11

29C. It  shall  be  lawful  for  the  Judge  of
every Small Claims Court, in pronouncing his
order or judgment in any case, to make such
order  in  respect  of  the  payment  of  costs  and
expenses  as  to  him  shall  appear  just  and
reasonable.

29D. (1)  Any  person  who  is  dissatisfied
with any judgment pronounced by any Small
Claims  Court  in  any  action,  proceeding  or
matter to which he is a party, may, except where
such  right  is  expressly  disallowed,  prefer  an
appeal  therefrom  to  the  High  Court  for  the
Province  established  by  Article  154P  of  the
Constitution in which such Small Claims Court
is situated for any error in law or in fact.

(2) Any person who is dissatisfied with any
order made by any Small Claims Court in the
course of any action, proceeding, or matter to
which he is or seeks to be a party, may prefer an
appeal  to  the  High  Court  for  the  Province
established by Article 154P of the Constitution
in which such Small Claims Court is situated
against  such  order  for  the  correction  of  any
error in law or in fact, with the leave of such
High Court first had and obtained.

(3) Any person who is dissatisfied with any
order made by any Small Claims Court setting
aside  or  refusing  to  set  aside  the  judgment
entered  upon  default  in  the  course  of  any
action, proceeding or matter to which he is, or
seeks to be a party, may prefer an appeal to the
High  Court  for  the  Province  established  by
Article 154P of the Constitution in which such
Small  Claims  Court  is  situated,  for  the
correction of any error of law or fact, with the
leave of such High Court first had and obtained.

Order
respecting
payment  of
costs  and
expenses

Appeal

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

12

Judicature (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

Amicable
settlements

(4) The provisions of Chapters LVIII, LIX,
LX  and  LXI  of  the  Civil  Procedure  Code
(Chapter 101) with reference to appeal and the
stay of execution pending appeal, shall apply
so  far  as  they  are  not  inconsistent  with  the
provisions of this Chapter.

(5) The Judge of every Small Claims Court
shall  conform  to  and  execute  all  such
judgements, orders, and decrees of the Supreme
Court, Court of Appeal or High Court for the
Province  established  by  Article  154P  of  the
Constitution as shall be made and pronounced
in any appeal, in like manner as any original
judgement  or  order  pronounced  by  the  said
Judge could or might have been executed.

29E. It shall be the duty of the Judge of the
Small Claims Court by all lawful means to make
every  effort  to  induce  the  parties,  before  or
during the trial, to arrive at a settlement where
appropriate  and  if  the  parties  agree  to  a
settlement.  The  settlement  shall  be  recorded
and signed by the parties and a judgement made
in accordance with the terms as settled.”.

25

11.  The  following  new  Chapter  is  hereby  inserted
immediately  after  Chapter  VI  of  the  principal  enactment
and shall have effect as Chapter VII of that enactment: -

Insertion  of
new  Chapter
VII  in  the
principal
enactment

“CHAPTER VII

PRIMARY COURTS

Civil
jurisdiction

30

32. (1) Every Primary Court shall, subject
to the provisions of any other law, have original
civil  jurisdiction  where  the  debt,  damage,

Judicature (Amendment)

13

demand or claim does not exceed one thousand
five  hundred  rupees  and  shall  also  have
jurisdiction  in  respect  of  the  enforcement  of
by-laws of local authorities and matters relating
to  the  recovery  of  revenue  of  such  local
authorities.

(2)  The  Primary  Courts  shall  have  no
jurisdiction in respect of the disputes referred
to in the Fourth Schedule hereto, irrespective
of the value of such claim.

33.  (1)  Every  Primary  Court  shall  have
exclusive  original  criminal  jurisdiction  in
respect of such offences as may, by regulation,
be prescribed by the Minister and the Minister
may, in that regulation specify in the case of
each  offence  the  limitations,  restrictions  and
conditions in respect of each such offence.

(2) The Primary Courts shall have sole and
exclusive jurisdiction in respect of all offences
alleged  to  have  been  committed  in  violation
of  the  provisions  of  any  enactment  or  any
subsidiary  legislation  made  thereunder,  in
respect of which jurisdiction is vested in such
Court.

(3) Anything in this section shall not preclude
a  Magistrate  from  convicting  and  passing
sentence on any person found guilty after trial of
any offence specified in subsection (1).

Criminal
jurisdiction

5

10

15

20

25

30

Duty  to
conciliate
disputes

35

34. (1) Where any civil proceeding or matter
is instituted in a Primary Court, it shall be the
duty  of  the  Judge  of  that  Primary  Court  to
summon the parties to appear before him and
wherever appropriate to make every effort to
induce  such  parties  to  arrive  at  a  settlement
before  proceeding  to  inquiry  or  trial.  Where

14

Judicature (Amendment)

5

10

15

20

25

30

Appeal

such  parties  agree  to  a  settlement,  such
settlement shall be recorded and signed by the
parties thereto and shall be entered as a decree
of the said Primary Court and be enforceable,
as a decree thereof.

(2) Where any criminal proceeding or matter
is instituted in a Primary Court, it shall be the
duty of the Judge of that Court to summon the
parties  concerned  to  appear  before  him  and
wherever appropriate to induce such parties to
arrive at a settlement. Where such parties agree
to a settlement, such settlement shall be recorded
and  signed  by  the  parties  concerned  and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other law, the offence to which the proceeding
or matter relates shall be compounded.

35. (1) Any party aggrieved by any judgment,
order,  decree,  conviction  or  sentence,  entered
or imposed after inquiry or trial by a Primary
Court may, subject to any law and in accordance
with any law, regulation or rule governing the
procedure and manner for so appealing, prefer
an appeal therefrom to the Court of Appeal for
any error in law or in fact:

Provided that where there is no such law,
regulation or rule governing the procedure and
manner for so appealing, the provisions relating
to appeals from a Magistrate’s Court shall apply
to an appeal in a criminal matter or proceeding
and the provisions relating to appeals from a
District  Court  shall  apply  to  an  appeal  in  a
civil matter or proceeding.

(2) No appeal shall lie from any judgment,
order, decree, conviction or sentence entered

Judicature (Amendment)

15

or  imposed  by  reason  of  a  settlement  of  the
dispute  between  the  parties  arrived  at  under
the provisions of this Chapter.

36. All proceedings in a Primary Court shall
be  instituted  and  conducted  as  expeditiously
as possible in accordance with such law as may
be applicable thereto and, if there be no such
law, in accordance with the provisions relating
to summary procedure in the Civil Procedure
Code (Chapter 101) in respect of a civil matter
or  proceeding  and  in  accordance  with  the
provisions  relating  to  summary  trials  in  a
Magistrate’s  Court  in  respect  of  a  criminal
matter or proceeding.”.

Procedure  in
Primary
Courts

5

10

15

12.  Section  37  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

“Right  of
appeal  to  the
Supreme
Court

20

37. There shall be a right of appeal to the
Supreme  Court  in  accordance  with  the
provisions of the Constitution and of any other
law from any judgment or order of the Court of
Appeal in any appeal from the High Court, the
District Courts, the Family Courts, the Small
Claims Courts, the Magistrates’ Courts or the
Primary Courts.”.

25

13.  Section  45  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  by  the  repeal  of  subsection  (4)  thereof  and  the
substitution therefor, of the following: -

30

“(4) Every Justice of the Peace and every Unofficial
Magistrate appointed under subsections (2 ) and (3 )
shall take and subscribe or make and subscribe an oath
or  affirmation  of  office  in  such  form  as  may  be
determined by the Minister before a Judge of the High
Court, District Judge, Judge of the Family Court, Judge
of the Small Claims Court, Magistrate, or Judge of the

Replacement
of  section  37
of  the
principal
enactment

Amendment
of  section  45
of  the
principal
enactment

16

Judicature (Amendment)

Primary  Court  and  every  such  Judge  is  empowered
and  required,  upon  application  in  that  behalf,  to
administer the same and to enter in the records of his
court  that  the  said  oath  or  affirmation  was  duly
administered  and  taken  by  him,  and  forthwith  to
transmit a copy of such entry to the Registrar of the
Supreme  Court  to  be  entered  in  the  records  of  that
Court.”.

5

10

14.  Section  49  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended by the repeal of the proviso to subsection (3) of
that section and the substitution therefor, of the following: -

Amendment
of  section  49
of  the
principal
enactment

15

20

“Provided that in every other case some other Judge
of the High Court, the District Court, Family Court,
Small  Claims  Court,  Magistrate  of  the  Magistrate’s
Court and Judge of the Primary Court, as the case may
be,  of  any  adjoining  zone,  district  or  division  shall
have jurisdiction to hear, try and determine such action,
prosecution, proceeding or matter.”.

15.  Section  52  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  in  subsection  (1)  thereto  by  the  substitution  for
the  words  “the  District  Courts,  Small  Claims  Courts  and
Magistrates’  Courts”,  of  the  words  “the  District  Courts,
Family  Courts,  Small  Claims  Courts,  Magistrates’  Courts
and Primary Courts”.

Amendment
of  section  52
of  the
principal
enactment

25

30

16.  Section  54  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
amended  in  subsection  (1)  thereto  by  the  substitution  for
the words “Where in any action instituted in a High Court,
District  Court  or  Small  Claims  Court,  it  appears-”,  of  the
words  “Where  in  any  action  instituted  in  a  High  Court,
District  Court,  Family  Court  or  Small  Claims  Court,  it
appears-”.

Amendment
of  section  54
of  the
principal
enactment

Judicature (Amendment)

17

17.  Section  55  of  the  principal  enactment  is  hereby
repealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

Replacement
of  section  55
of  the
principal
enactment

“Contempt
proceedings

5

10

15

20

25

30

55. (1) Every District Court, Family Court,
Small  Claims  Court,  Magistrate’s  Court  and
Primary  Court  shall,  for  the  purpose  of
maintaining its proper authority and efficiency,
have a special jurisdiction to take cognizance
of,  and  to  punish  with  the  penalties  in  that
behalf as hereinafter provided, every offence
of contempt of court committed in the presence
of the court itself and all offences which are
committed  in  the  course  of  any  act  or
proceeding in the said court respectively, and
which  are  declared  by  any  law  for  the  time
being in force to be punishable as contempt of
court.

(2)  The  following  sentences  of  fines  or
imprisonment  as  the  case  may  be,  may  be
imposed  on  conviction  for  contempt  by  the
following courts respectively, namely-

(a) by  a  District  Court  and  Family
Court  a  fine  not  exceeding  two
thousand five hundred rupees or
imprisonment,  either  simple  or
rigorous,  for  a  period  not
exceeding two years;

(b) by  a  Small  Claims  Court  and
Magistrate’s  Court  –  a  fine  not
exceeding  one  thousand  five
hundred rupees or imprisonment
either  simple  or  rigorous,  for  a
period  not  exceeding  eighteen
months;  and

18

Judicature (Amendment)

(c)

by a Primary Court – a fine not
exceeding five hundred rupees or
imprisonment,  either  simple  or
rigorous,  for  a  period  not
exceeding three months.”.

18.  The  following  new  section  is  hereby  inserted
immediately after section 56 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 57 of that enactment: -

Insertion  of
section  57  in
the  principal
enactment

“Where
Judge  of  a
Primary
Court  is  not
appointed

57. Where a Judge of a primary Court of any
judicial division established under this Act has
not  been  appointed,  the  Magistrate  of  such
division shall be deemed for all purpose to be
and shall exercise all jurisdiction of the Judge
of the Primary Court of such division until a
Judge of such Primary Court is appointed:

Provided that where a Judge of a Primary
Court  of  such  division  is  appointed,  the
Magistrate  of  such  division  may  hear  and
determine  all  prosecutions,  actions,
proceedings  or  matters  in  which  such
Magistrate  has  commenced  the  recording  of
any  evidence.”.

5

10

15

20

Addition  of
the  Third  and
Fourth
Schedules  to
the  principal
enactment

19.  The  principal  enactment  is  hereby  amended  by  the
insertion immediately after the Second Schedule thereof, of
the following new Schedules: -

25

“THIRD  SCHEDULE

  Enactments

[Section  24(2)]

(1) Adoption  of  Children  Ordinance  (Chapter  61)

(2) Births  and  Deaths  Registration  Act  (Chapter  110)

(3) Civil  Procedure  Code  (Chapter  101)

Judicature (Amendment)

19

(4)

Jaffna  Matrimonial  Rights  and  Inheritance  Ordinance
(Chapter  58)

(5) Legitimacy  Act,  No.  3  of  1970

(6) Marriage  Registration  Ordinance  (Chapter  112)

(7) Married  Women’s  Property  Ordinance  (Chapter  56)

(8) Matrimonial  Rights  and  Inheritance  Ordinance  (Chapter  57)

FOURTH  SCHEDULE

    [Section  32(2)]

Actions  excluded  from  the  jurisdiction  of  primary  courts

(1) Any  action  concerning  an  act  or  order  purporting  to  be
done  or  made  by  the  State  or  concerning  an  act  purporting
to  be  done  by  any  person  by  order  of  the  State.

(2) Any  action  concerning  an  act  purporting  to  be  done  by  any
person  in  pursuance  of  a  judgement  or  order  of  a  court  or
of  a  judicial  officer  acting  in  the  execution  of  his  office.

(3) Any  action  concerning  any  act  or  order  purporting  to  be
done  or  made  by  any  officer  of  the  State  in  his  official
capacity.

(4) Any  action  for  the  partition  or  sale  of  immovable  property
under  the  law  relating  to  partition  for  the  time  being  in
force.

(5) Any  action  by  a  mortgagee  of  immovable  property  for  the
enforcement  of  the  mortgage  or  for  the  sale  of  the  property,
or by a mortgagor of immovable property for the redemption
of  the  mortgage.

(6) Any  action  to  restrain  waste.

(7) Any  action  to  recover  from  a  person  to  whom  compensation
has  been  paid  under  the  Land  Acquisition  Act  (Chapter
460)  or  Land  Reform  Law  No.  1  of  1972,  the  whole  or  any
part  of  the  compensation.

(8) Any  action  for  the  specific  performance  or  rescission  of  a

contract  or  for  damages  for  breach  of  contract.

(9) Any  action  for  the  rectification  or  cancellation  of  an

injunction.

20

Judicature (Amendment)

(10)  Any  action  to  obtain  an  injunction.

(11)  Any  action  relating  to  a  trust  including  an  action  to  make
good  out  of  the  general  estate  of  a  deceased  trustee  the  loss
occasioned  by  a  breach  of  trust,  and  any  action  by  a  co-
trustee  to  enforce  against  the  estate  of  a  deceased  trustee  a
claim  for  the  contribution.

(12)  Any  action  for  a  declaratory  decree  including  a  decree  for

the  declaration  of  title  to  land.

(13)  Any  action  for  a  property  which  the  plaintiff  has  conveyed

while  insane  or  under  other  incapacity.

(14)  Any  action  to  contest  an  award  made  by  an  arbitrator.

(15)  Any  action  upon  a  foreign  judgement  as  defined  in  the  Civil
Procedure  Code  (Chapter  101)  or  upon  a  judgement
obtained  in  any  court  in  Sri  Lanka.

(16)  Any  action  to  compel  a  refund  by  a  person  to  whom  an
executor  or  administrator  has  paid  a  legacy  or  distributed
assets.

(17)  Any  action  for  a  legacy  or  for  the  whole  or  a  share  of  a
residue  bequeathed  by  a  testator  or  for  the  whole  or  a  share
of  the  property  of  an  intestate.

(18)  Any  action-

(a)

for a dissolution of partnership or for the winding
up  of  the  business  of  a  partnership  after  its
dissolution;

(b)

for  an  account  of  partnership  transactions;  or

(c)

for  a  balance  of  partnership-account.

(19)  Any  action  for  an  account  of  property  administered  under

decree  or  order  of  any  court.

(20)  Any  other  action  for  an  account,  including  an  action  by  a
mortgagor,  after  the  mortgage  has  been  satisfied,  to  recover
surplus  collection  received  by  the  mortgagee,  and  any  action
for  the  profits  on  immovable  property  belonging  to  the
plaintiff  which  has  been  wrongfully  received  by  the
defendant.

Judicature (Amendment)

21

(21)  Any  action  for  a  general  average  loss  or  for  salvage.

(22) Any  action  for  compensation  in  respect  of  collision  between

ships.

(23)  Any  action  on  a  policy  of  insurance  or  for  the  recovery  of

any  premium  paid  under  any  such  policy.

(24)  Any  action  for  compensation  or  damages  -

(a)

for  loss  resulting  from  the  death  of  a  person
caused  by  actionable  wrong;

(b)

for  wrongful  arrest;

(c)

For  malicious  prosecution;

(d)

for  wrongful  restraint  or  confinement;

(e)

for  defamation;

(f)

for  adultery  or  seduction;

(g)

(h)

(i)

for  breach  of  contract  of  betrothal  or  promise  of
marriage;

for  inducing  a  person  to  break  a  contract  made
with  the  plaintiff;

for  obstruction  to  or  interference  with  the
enjoyment  of  any  servitude  or  the  exercise  of
any  right  over  property.

(25)  Any  action  by  a  Muslim  for  the  recovery  of  Mahr.

(26)  Any  action  for  the  custody  of  a  minor.

(27)  Any  action  for  a  divorce  or  a  judicial  separation.

(28)  Any  action  relating  to  maintenance,  affiliation  or  adoption.

(29)  Any  action  for  contribution  by  a  sharer  in  joint  property  in
respect  of  a  payment  made  by  him  of  money  due  from  a
co-sharer.

(30)  Any  action  by  one  of  several  joint  mortgagors  of  immovable
property  for  contribution  in  respect  of  money  paid  by  him
for  the  redemption  of  the  mortgaged  property.

22

Judicature (Amendment)

(31)  Any  action  against  the  State  or  a  local  authority  to  recover
money  paid  under  protest  in  satisfaction  of  a  claim  made  on
account  of  any  tax  or  rate  or  other  levy.

(32)  Any  action  under  the  Companies  Act,  No.  7  of  2007  as

amended  from  time  to  time.

(33)  Any  action  relating  to  trade  marks,  patents  or  copyrights
under  the  Intellectual  Property  Act,  No.  36  of  2003.

(34)  Any  action  founded  on  nuisance.

(35)  Any  action  for  rent  and  ejectment  and  proceedings  under

the  Rent  Act,  No.  7  of  1972.

(36)  Any  action  expressly  or  by  implication  excluded  from  the
jurisdiction  of  Primary  Courts  by  any  written  law  (other
than  this  Act)  for  the  time  being  in  force.”.

20.  The  principal  enactment  is  hereby  amended  by  the
addition  immediately  after  the  Sixth  Schedule  thereof,  of
the following new Schedule: -

Addition  of
the  Seventh
Schedule  to
the  principal
enactment

“SEVENTH  SCHEDULE

Actions

[Section  29A(2)]

1. Any  action  for  the  recovery  of  money  (either  as  a  debt  or
fee  or  payment  or  damage  or  demand  including  an  action
for  the  recovery  of  damages  on  accident  or  personal  injury
or  in  any  other  similar  category);

2. Any  action  for  the  recovery  of  movable  property;

3. Any  action  for  a  counterclaim  in  respect  of  any  cause  of

action  specified  in  items  1  and  2;

4. Any  other  jurisdiction  as  is  conferred  upon  it  by  any  other

law.”.

21. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

Judicature (Amendment)

23

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING

