THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of July 22, 2021

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 28.07.2021)

INSTITUTE OF SPORT FOR PEACE, EDUCATION,
EMPOWERMENT  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (SPEED)
(INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporate the Institute of Sport for Peace, Education,
Empowerment and Development (SPEED)

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. (Ven.) Athuraliye Rathana Thero, M.P.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00

Postage : Rs. 15.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

1
  Institute of Sport for Peace, Education,
Empowerment and Development (SPEED) (Incorporation)

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INSTITUTE OF SPORT FOR PEACE,
EDUCATION, EMPOWERMENT AND DEVELOPMENT (SPEED)

WHEREAS  an  Institute  called  and  known  as  the
“Institute of Sport for Peace, Education, Empowerment and
Development (SPEED) ” has heretofore been established in
Sri  Lanka  for  the  purpose  of  effectually  carrying  out  its
objects and transacting all  matters connected with the said
Institute according to the rules agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Institute  has  heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  for  the  public  advantage  to
grant  the  said  application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—

5

10

15

1. This Act may be cited as the Institute of Sport for
Peace,  Education,  Empowerment  and  Development
(Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2021.

Short  title

20

25

2.

(1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Institute of Sport for Peace, Education, Empowerment and
Development (hereinafter referred to as the  “Institute”) or
shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession,  under  the  name  and  style  of  the  “Institute  of
Sport  for  Peace,  Education,  Empowerment  and
Development” (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”),
and by that name may sue and be sued with full power and
authority to have, and use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.

Incorporation
of  the
Institute
Sport  for
Peace,
Education,
Empowerment
and
Development
(SPEED)

PL 00713PL 007134 Kandy Dharmaraja College4 Kandy
Dharmaraja College

2
 Institute of Sport for Peace, Education,
Empowerment and Development (SPEED) (Incorporation)

(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a voluntary
social service organization within the meaning, and for the
purpose  of  the  Voluntary  Social  Services  Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.

3.

(1) The general objects for which the Corporation is

constituted are hereby declared to be:—

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

(a)

(b)

to    increase  performance  of  Sri  Lanka  and  South
Asian  nations  in  International  sporting  events  by
establishing  a  platform  for  the  upholding  of
principles and values of Olympism and to support
Olympic movement;

to optimize the potential of sport for contributing
to national and regional peace building and conflict
prevention  and  to  achieve  internationally  agreed
development goals by using sport as a tool for peace
education  and  social  integration  under  Sport  for
Development and Peace;

5

10

15

20

(c)

to promote professional, traditional and recreational
sport  in  Sri  Lanka  through  creating  access  to
resources, services and facilities;

(d)

(e)

to promote gender equality and the empowerment
of  women  through  suporting  their  career  and
advancement in sport, in particular their progressive
high performance in international sporting events;

to advance the use of sport as a vehicle to promote
health  and  prevent  drug  abuse  through  physical
education,  foster  the  inclusion  and  well-being  of
persons  with  disabilities  and  facilitate  social
inclusion of marginalized groups;

25

30

3
  Institute of Sport for Peace, Education,
Empowerment and Development (SPEED) (Incorporation)

(f)

to provide resources, services and facilities to enable
marginalized South Asian sports men and women
to  pursue  and  achieve  excellence  in  sport  while
also  furthering  their  educational  and  vocational
skills  and  other  aspects  of  their  personal
development;  and

(g)

to create a South Asian Knowledge Centre for Sport
including  research  and  development  facilities  on
sports science, sports medicine, physical education
and sports engineering.

(2)  In  the  implementation  of  the  objects  specified  in
subsection  (1)  the  Corporation  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation shall be carried out without any distinction
based  on  race,  religion,  language,  caste,  sex,  political
opinion, place of birth or and of such grounds.

4. The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out in
such  manner  so  as  not  to  create  any  conflict  between  the
work  of  the  Corporation  and  any  work  being  carried  out
simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or of any Provincial Council.

5.

(1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  the
management  and  administration  of  the  affairs  of  the
Corporation  shall  be  carried  out  by  Governig  Council
(hereinafter referred to as the “Council”) consisting of such
number of office bearers as may be specified by the rules
made under section 7.

(2) (a) The Governing Council of the Insitute that holds
office  on  the  day  immediately  preceding  the  date  of
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Council of
the Corporation until the first Council is appointed or elected
in the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Corporation
to  ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of
Ministry  or
Department
of  the
Government
or  Province

Management
of  affairs  of
the
Corporation

PL 00713PL 007134 Kandy Dharmaraja College4 Kandy
Dharmaraja College

4
 Institute of Sport for Peace, Education,
Empowerment and Development (SPEED) (Incorporation)

(b)  The  first  Council  of  the  Corporation  shall  be
appointed  or  elected  within  one  year  of  the  date  of
commencement of this Act.

(3)  (a)  Every  office  bearer  of  the  Council  including
the patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a
period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or
advisor  shall  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  or  re-election
after lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer, the Council shall having regard to the rules of the
Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

5

10

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.

15

20

25

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written  law,  the  Corporation  shall  have  the  power  to  do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects
of  the  Corporation  or  any  one  of  them,  including  the
power:—

Powers  of  the
Corporation

(a) to  purchase,  acquire  rent,  construct,  renovate  and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required for the pruposes of the Corporation and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the  Corporation;

(b) to organize programs and events pertaining to sport

and sport related areas;

30

(c) enter into and perform or carry out, whether directly
or  through  any  officer  or  agent  authorized  in  that

5
  Institute of Sport for Peace, Education,
Empowerment and Development (SPEED) (Incorporation)

behalf  by  the  Corporation,  all  such  contracts  or
agreements as may  be necessary for the attainment
of the objects or the exercise of the powers of the
Corporation.

(d) to borrow or raise funds with or without securities
and to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or
kind:

Provided that, the Council shall obtain the prior
written  approval  of  the  Department  of  External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the  subject  of  Finance,  in  respect  of  all  foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;

(e) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy,  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain and close accounts
in any bank;

(f) to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for the purposes of the Corporation, in such manner
as the Council may determine;

(g) to  undertake,  accept,  execute,  perform  and
administer any lawful turst or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of the
Corproation;

(h) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of  officers  and  servants  of  the  Corporation  and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation;

(i)   to  organize  lectures,  seminars  conferences  and
events with a view to promoting the objectives of
the  Corporation;

5

10

15

20

25

30

PL 00713PL 007134 Kandy Dharmaraja College4 Kandy
Dharmaraja College

6
 Institute of Sport for Peace, Education,
Empowerment and Development (SPEED) (Incorporation)

(j) to  liaise,  co-ordinate  and  enter  into  binding
agreements with other local and foreign institutions
having similar objects to that of the Corporation;

(k) to  train  personnel  in  Sri  Lanka  or  abroad  for  the

5

purposes of the Corporation;

(l) to engage in all other activities as are necessary or
expedient for the proper and effective carrying out
of the objects of the Corporation; and

(m) to sign agreements, MOU’s and statements with state

10

actors in Sri Lanka or abroad.

7.

(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time,  at  any  general  meeting  of  the  Corporation  and  by  a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and  voting,  to  make  rules,  not  inconsistent  with  the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—

15

Rules  of  the
Corporation

(a)

the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by the members;

20

(b)

the  election  of  office  bearers  of  the  Council  or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;

(c)

(d)

25

30

the  terms  and  conditions  of  appointment,  powers
functions and duties of the various officers, agents
and servants of the Corporation;

the  procedure  to  be  followed  for  the  summoning
and holding of meetings of the Council or any sub-
Council  thereof,  notices  and  agenda  of  such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;

7
  Institute of Sport for Peace, Education,
Empowerment and Development (SPEED) (Incorporation)

(e)

(f)

the  qualifications  and  disqualifications  to  be  a
member of the Council and the Corporation;

the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and

5

(g) generally  the  management  of  the  affairs  of  the
Corpration and the accomplishment of its’ objects
and dissolution of the Corporation.

(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered,  added  to  or  rescinded  at  a  like  meeting  and  in
like  manner,  as  a  rule  made  under  subsection  (1)  of  this
section.

10

(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be

subject to the rules of the Corporation.

(4) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be published

15

in the Gazette.

8. The Council shall maintain a register of members in
which  name,  address  and  other  essential  details  of  the
members shall be inscribed.

Register  of
members

9.

(1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.

Fund  of  the
Corporation

20

(2)  All  moneys  received  by  way  of  gift,  bequest,
donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grant for and on
account  of  the  Corporation  shall  be  deposited  in  one
or  more  banks  approved  by  the  Council  to  the  credit  of
the  Corporation.

25

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money
as  are  required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under the Act.

PL 00713PL 007134 Kandy Dharmaraja College4 Kandy
Dharmaraja College

8
 Institute of Sport for Peace, Education,
Empowerment and Development (SPEED) (Incorporation)

10.

(1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
Auditing

(2) The  Corporation  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to  be
kept  of  its  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.

5

(3) The  accounts  of  the  Corporation  shall  be  audited
annually    by  the  Auditor  General  or  a  qualified  auditor
appointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of the
Constitution.

10

(4) For the purposes of this section "qualified auditor"

means–

(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or

(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of  which,  being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered  Accountants  of  Sri  Lanka  or  of  any
other  Institute  established  by  law,  possesses  a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the council of such Institute.

Annual
Report

11.

(1)  The  Council  shall  prepare  a  report  of  the
activities  of  the  Corporation  for  each  financial  year  and
submit  such  report  together  with  the  audited  statement  of
accounts  to  the  Secretary  of  the  Ministry  of    the  Minister
assigned  the  subject  of  Sport  and  to  the  Registrar  of
Voluntary  Social  Services  Organizations  appointed  under
the  Voluntary  Social  Services  Organization  (Registration
and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration
of six months of the year succeeding the year to which such
report relates.

15

20

25

30

9
  Institute of Sport for Peace, Education,
Empowerment and Development (SPEED) (Incorporation)

(2)  A  separate  account  relating  to  the  foreign  and
local  moneys  received  by  the  Corporation  during  the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).

5

10

15

20

25

12. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on
the day immediatly preceding the date of commencement of
this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted
and  all  debts  due  to  and  subscriptions  and  contributions
payable  to  the  Institute  on  that  day  shall  be  paid  to  the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
institute

13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to take and hold any property,
movable or immovable, which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testementary disposition
or  otherwise,  and  all  such  property  shall  be  held  by  the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under section 7, with power
to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of,
the same.

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

14. The moneys and property of the Corporation however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the
objects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall  be
paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,
bonus or profit to the members of the Corporation.

Application
of  moneys
and  property

15.

(1) The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members of the Council who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation

30

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
an  office  bearer  of  the  Council  as  may  be  decided  by  the
Council.

PL 00713PL 007134 Kandy Dharmaraja College4 Kandy
Dharmaraja College

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

10
 Institute of Sport for Peace, Education,
Empowerment and Development (SPEED) (Incorporation)

16.

(1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution having objects
similar to those of the Corporation, and which is by the rules
thereof, prohibited from distributing any income or property
among its members.

(2)  For  the  purposes  of  subsection  (1)  the  appropriate
institution  shall  be  determined  by  the  members  of
the  Corporation  immediately  before  the  dissolution  at
a  general  meeting  by  the  majority  of  votes  of  the
members present.

5

10

15

17. Nothing  in  this  Act  contained  shall  prejudice  or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.

Saving  of  the
rights  of  the
Republic

18. In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala  and  Tamil  texts  of  this  Act,  the  Sinhala  text  shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  prevail  in
case  of
inconsistency

11
  Institute of Sport for Peace, Education,
Empowerment and Development (SPEED) (Incorporation)

Department  of  Government  Printing

