PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

ASSISTANCE TO AND PROTECTION OF VICTIMS OF
CRIME AND WITNESSES ACT,  No.  10  OF  2023

[Certified on 08th of  August, 2023]

 Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 11, 2023

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 144.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Act  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

1

[Certified on 08th of August, 2023]

L.D.-O. 38/2019

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE SETTING  OUT OF RIGHTS AND ENTITLEMENTS
OF VICTIMS OF CRIME AND WITNESSES AND THE PROTECTION AND
PROMOTION OF SUCH RIGHTS AND ENTITLEMENTS; TO GIVE EFFECT TO
APPROPRIATE INTERNATIONAL NORMS, STANDARDS AND BEST PRACTICES
RELATING TO THE ASSISTANCE TO AND PROTECTION OF VICTIMS OF
CRIME AND WITNESSES; TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE
NATIONAL AUTHORITY FOR THE PROTECTION OF VICTIMS OF CRIME
AND  WITNESSES,  THE  VICTIMS  OF  CRIME  AND  WITNESSES
ASSISTANCE AND PROTECTION DIVISION AND THE VICTIMS OF CRIME
AND WITNESSES ASSISTANCE AND PROTECTION FUND; TO PROVIDE
FOR THE PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO VICTIMS OF CRIME; TO REPEAL
THE ASSISTANCE TO AND PROTECTION OF VICTIMS OF CRIME AND
WITNESSES ACT, NO. 4 OF 2015; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1.  (1)  This  Act  may  be  cited  as  the  Assistance  to  and
Protection of Victims of Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of
2023.

Short  title  and
date  of
operation

(2)  The  provisions  of  this  Act,  other  than  this  section,
shall come into operation on such date as the Minister may
by Order published in the Gazette appoint (in this Act referred
to as the “appointed date”).

(3)  The  provisions  of  this  section  shall  come  into
operation on the date on which the Certificate of the Speaker
is endorsed on the Bill.

PART   I

OBJECTS OF THE ACT

2.  The objects of this Act shall be-

Objects  of  the
Act

(a)

to set out the rights and entitlements of victims of
crime and witnesses;

2

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

to set out duties and responsibilities of the State,
judicial officers and public officers in upholding,
promoting  and  protecting  the  rights  and
entitlements of victims of crime and witnesses;

to stipulate conduct that constitute offences against
victims of crime and witnesses;

to provide assistance and protection to victims of
crime and witnesses;

to provide for a mechanism to enable the victims of
crime and witnesses to exercise and enforce their
rights and entitlements and to obtain relief;

to  provide  for  the  granting  of  redress  including
compensation,  restitution,  reparation  and
rehabilitation to victims of crime and witnesses;

to establish a National Authority for the Protection
of Victims of Crime and Witnesses and a Victims of
Crime  and  Witnesses  Assistance  and  Protection
Division;

to  make  provision  for  the  victims  of  crime  and
witnesses  to  testify  through  contemporaneous
audio-visual means; and

to  recognize  and  implement  internationally
recognized best practices relating to assistance to
and protection of victims of crime and witnesses.

PART II

Right  of  a  victim
of  crime  to  a  fair
treatment

RIGHTS AND ENTITLEMENTS OF VICTIMS OF CRIME AND WITNESSES

3. (1) A victim of crime shall have the right-

(a)

to  be  treated  with  equality  and  with  fairness  and
respect to the dignity and privacy of such victim of
crime;

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

3

to  receive  prompt,  adequate  and  fair  redress
including  reparation  and  restitution  which  is
commensurate  with  any  injury,  damage  or  loss
suffered as a victim of crime;

to be protected from any injury or potential injury,
including  threats,  intimidation,  reprisal  or
retaliation;

to  be  treated  for  any  physical,  psychological,
emotional  or  mental  harm,  including  impairment
or disability, suffered as a victim of crime;

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e) where such victim of crime is a child, to be treated
in a manner that ensures the best interest of such
child;

(f) where   such victim of crime is a female who has to
be medically examined, to make a request to be so
examined, by a female medical professional; and

(g) where the offence is of sexual nature, to specify the
gender  of  the  officer  who  is  to  carry  out  the
investigation or inquiry into the offence.

(2)  Whenever a victim of crime, in exercising the right
under paragraph (f) or paragraph (g) of subsection (1), makes
a request to be examined by a female medical professional
or specifies the gender of the officer who is to carry out the
investigation or inquiry, as the case may be, it shall be the
duty of the State to make all endeavors to ensure that such
medical examination or investigation or inquiry is carried
out by a medical professional or investigation or inquiring
officer, as the case may be, of the gender requested or specified
by the victim of crime.

4

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

4. A victim of crime shall have the right, upon a request

made by such victim of crime, to be informed-

(a) by the Authority or the Protection Division or any

law enforcement authority-

Right  of  a  victim
of  crime  to
receive
information  on
assistance,
protection  and
remedies
available  to  him

(i) of  the  measures  of  protection  available  to

such victim of crime under this Act;

(ii) of  the  legal  remedies  including  delictual
remedies available for the redress of any injury
which such victim of crime has suffered; and

(iii) of the time periods within which legal action
shall  be  instituted  to  obtain  legal  remedies;
and

(b) by the Authority or the Protection Division, of the
medical services, social services and other assistance
available for the treatment of any harm caused to
such  victim  of  crime  and  the  availability  of  any
facilities to assist such victim of crime.

5. (1) A victim of crime shall have the right-

(a)

to make a complaint or to cause a complaint to be
made  in  relation  to  any  conduct  constituting  an
offence under this Act in the manner provided for
in  this  Act  and  to  have  such  complaint  recorded
and investigated according to law;

(b) without  prejudice  to  any  ongoing  investigation
or  inquiry,  to  make  representations  to  the
investigation  authority  or  inquiring  authority  in
person or through an attorney-at-law and receive a
response within a reasonable period of time;

Right  of  a  victim
of  crime  in
relation  to
complaints,
inquiries,
investigations,
&c

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

5

(c) without  prejudice  to  the  prosecution  and  in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  this  Act,  to  be
represented by an attorney-at-law at any stage of
any proceedings before a court or Commission;

(d)

to make a request, if necessary, for legal aid to be
provided by the State;

(e) upon  conviction  of  the  offender  and  prior  to  the
determination of the sentence, to submit to the court
or  Commission  a  victim  impact  statement  in
accordance  with  section  8,  either  personally  or
through an attorney-at-law;

(f)

(g)

(h)

in the event of any person in authority considering
the  grant  of  a  pardon  or  remission  of  sentence
imposed on any person convicted of an offence, to
receive  notice  thereof  and  submit  through  the
Authority  to  the  person  granting  such  pardon  or
remission,  the  manner  in  which  the  offence
committed has impacted on such victim of crime
physically,  emotionally,  psychologically,
financially, professionally or in any other manner;

at  any  stage  of  the  investigation,  inquiry  or
proceeding,  to  make  representations  to  the
Attorney-General, through an attorney-at-law or in
writing  by  such  victim  of  crime  or  any  person
authorised by such victim of crime, as regards the
manner in which the offence has impacted on him;

to  receive  from  the  Authority  any  relevant
information  and  assistance  that  facilitates  the
attendance  and  participation  at  any  proceedings
before a court or Commission relating to the offence
alleged to have been committed; and

6

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(i)

to  be  present  at  any  civil  or  criminal  judicial  or
quasi-judicial  proceedings  relating  to  an  offence,
including  at  the  non-summary  inquiries,  trials,
appeals  and  any  applications  in  revision,  unless
the court, Commission or other tribunal determines,
for reasons to be recorded, that future evidence of
such victim of crime would be  materially affected
if he hears other evidence at such proceedings or,
the due discharge of justice could be secured only
by the exclusion of such victim of crime from being
present during the hearing of certain parts of such
proceedings.

(2)  A victim of crime shall have the right, upon a request

made by such victim of crime, to be informed-

(a) by  the  officer-in-charge  of  the  relevant  police
station  or  other  authority  conducting  the
investigation  or  inquiry  into  the  alleged  offence,
of the progress of the investigation or inquiry:

Provided  however,  the  release  of  such
information may be withheld for justifiable reasons;

(b) b y   t h e   o f f i c e r - i n - c h a r g e   o f   t h e   r e l e v a n t
police  station,  other  authority  conducting  the
investigation  or  inquiry  into  the  alleged  offence,
the Attorney-General or the Registrar of the relevant
court, as the case may be, of the dates fixed for the
hearing of the case or the progress or disposal of
judicial proceedings relating to the alleged offence
and  the  rights  and  entitlements  of  the  victim  of
crime pertaining to such judicial proceedings;

(c) by  the  officer-in-charge  of  the  relevant  police
station, other authority conducting an investigation
or inquiry into the alleged offence, the Attorney-
General, the Registrar of the relevant court or the
Superintendent of Prisons, as the case may be, of
the  date  on  which  the  proceedings  in  relation  to
any of the following is scheduled next: –

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

7

(i)

release on bail or discharge of the suspect;

(ii)

institution  of  criminal  proceedings  against
the  accused;

(iii)

the  conviction,  acquittal,  discharge  or
sentence of the suspect or the accused, as the
case may be; or

(iv)

the  release  from  prison  of  the  suspect  or
convicted  person.

(3)  (a)  A  victim  of  crime  may  make  a  request  to  the
Registrar of court in the prescribed form accompanied by
the  prescribed  fee  to  obtain  a  copy  of  the  order  of  court
relating to the release on bail or otherwise of the suspect or
the accused.

(b)  Upon  receipt  of  a  request  under  paragraph  (a),  the
Registrar  of  court  shall  proceed  with  such  request  in  an
expeditious  manner.

(4)  In the event the person in authority considering the
grant  of  a  pardon  or  remission  of  sentence  referred  to  in
paragraph (f) of subsection (1) is the President, the duty of
informing the Authority of such fact for the purpose of giving
notice thereof to the victim of crime shall be on the Secretary
to the President, and in the event such person in authority is
the  Governor  of  a  Province,  such  duty  shall  be  on  the
Secretary to the Governor of such Province.

6. (1) A victim of crime or other person on behalf a victim
of crime shall have the right to make an application in the
prescribed form and on payment of the prescribed fee to any
court or Commission to obtain certified copies of-

Right  of  a  victim
of  crime  to
obtain  copies  of
certain
documents

(a)

the cause of death form;

(b)

the postmortem report;

8

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(c)

the medico-legal report;

(d)

the report of the Registrar of Finger Prints;

(e)

the report of the Government Analyst; or

(f)

any other report that may be useful to such victim
of crime,

that  may  have  been  filed  in  such  court  or  Commission  in
relation to the investigation, inquiry or trial of the offence
alleged to have been committed.

(2)  Where an application is made to obtain any report
referred to in paragraph (d), (e) or (f) of subsection (1), a
notice thereof shall also be given to the Attorney-General.

(3)  Where  any  court  or  Commission  receives  an
application under subsection (1), such court or Commission-

(a)

(b)

shall issue such form or report, if the victim of crime
proves  to  the  satisfaction  of  such  court  or
Commission of the necessity of such form or report;

shall not issue such form or report, if, in its opinion,
the  issuance  of  the  same  may  cause  prejudice  to
any  ongoing  investigation,  inquiry,  trial  or
proceeding.

(4)   The onus of proving the necessity to obtain any form
or report specified in subsection (1) shall be on the person
who makes such application.

Entitlements  of  a
victim  of  crime
to  receive
financial
assistance

7. (1) A victim of crime shall be entitled to request and
receive reasonable financial assistance from the Authority
according  to  the  availability  of  such  assistance,  in
consideration of the expenses incurred as a result of-

(a)

the offence alleged to have been committed; and

(b) his participation in any proceedings before a court
or Commission in relation to such offence.

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

9

(2)    A  victim  of  crime  shall  be  entitled  to  request  and
receive  from  the  State  any  medical  treatment  including
appropriate medical services, medicines and other medical
facilities, or psychological or social   assistance in respect of
any harm suffered by him as a result of being a victim of
crime.

(3)    A  victim  of  crime  shall  be  entitled  to  request  and
receive necessary counseling or rehabilitation services from
the State, through any means including through community-
based  organizations.

(4)   A request for any medical treatment, services, facilities
or assistance under subsection (2) or (3) may be made to the
Authority  in  such  manner  as  may  be  prescribed  and  the
Authority  shall  proceed  with  such  request  and  cause
appropriate treatment, services, facilities or assistance to be
provided to such victim of crime in an expeditious manner.

(5)  The Authority may consider the grant of an interim
award  in  relation  to  any  request  made  under  this  section,
under section 67 of this Act.

8. (1) A victim of crime shall have the right to make a
statement in writing (in this Act referred to as the “victim
impact statement”) to the court or Commission to describe
the  manner  in  which  the  offence  alleged  to  have  been
committed  has  impacted  him  physically,  emotionally,
psychologically, financially, professionally or in any other
manner.

(2)  Where  any  victim  of  crime  is  unable  to  make,  or
incapable of making, such victim impact statement due to
any reason acceptable to the court or Commission, any other
person on behalf of the victim of crime as may be permitted
by the court or Commission may make such statement.

(3)  The victim impact statement shall consist of –

Victim  impact
statement

10

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(a)

  a victim personal statement; and

(b)

  a victim impact report.

(4)   A victim personal statement referred to in paragraph

(a) of subsection (3) -

(a)

shall set out the physical, emotional, psychological,
financial, professional or other impact of the offence
on the victim of crime;

(b) may contain a statement, where applicable, whether
the offence has been motivated by the age, gender,
ethnicity, faith, religion, sexuality or disability of
the victim of crime;

(c) may  state  whether  the  victim  wishes  to  claim
compensation or requires any assistance as provided
for in this Act.

(5)   A victim impact report referred to in paragraph (b) of
subsection (3) shall be a report issued by a medical expert or
psychologist and shall-

(a)

(b)

contain an opinion on the traumatic impact of the
offence on the victim of crime; and

contain a report on needs assessment of the victim
of crime, consequent to the impact of the offence
on the victim of crime.

(6) The  victim  personal  statement  and  victim  impact
report made by a victim of crime or any other person on his
behalf to a court or Commission shall be made available to
the  defence,  and  the  victim  of  crime  or  other  person  who
made such statement or the medical expert or psychologist
who issued the victim impact report may be summoned to
give  evidence  at  any  proceedings  before  such  court  or
Commission.

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

11

(7) A  court  or  Commission  may,  at  any  stage  of  the
proceedings and with notice to the defence, call for a victim
impact statement from the victim of crime or any other person
on  behalf  of  the  victim  of  crime  and  the  provisions  of
subsection (6) shall apply in relation to such victim impact
statement.

9. (1) A witness shall always be treated with respect to
his  dignity  and  privacy  in  a  manner  that  is  fair  in  all
circumstances.

Rights  and
entitlements  of  a
witness

(2)   Every witness is entitled to protection and it shall be

the duty of the State to provide such protection.

(3)  (a)  A  witness  shall  be  entitled  to  provide  any
information or make a statement freely and voluntarily to
any court, Commission or law enforcement authority relating
to the alleged commission of an offence or infringement of
any fundamental right or violation of any right granted under
the ICCPR Act.

(b) Subject  to  the  provisions  of  the  laws  of  evidence,
and subject to the service of summons at the discretion of a
court or Commission on a witness, a witness shall be entitled
to  testify  before  any  court  or  Commission  freely  and
voluntarily.

(4)   Where the participation of a witness is required prior
to, or during the course of, an investigation or inquiry, or
during  the  pendency  of  any  proceedings  in  any  court  or
Commission, such witness shall not be harassed, intimidated,
coerced or treated in a manner that violates his rights and
entitlements set out in this Act.

(5) A witness shall be entitled to protection against any
real  or  possible  harm,  threat,  intimidation,  reprisal  or
retaliation resulting from such witness-

12

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(a) having provided information or communication or

lodged  a  complaint;

(b) having made a statement or submitted an affidavit
to  any  law  enforcement  authority  during  an
investigation  or  inquiry;

(c) having  provided  any  testimony  or  given  any
evidence in any court or before any Commission;

(d) being a public officer, having been engaged in any

manner in the administration of justice; or

(e)

for instituting legal proceedings,

in relation to the commission of an offence or infringement
of any fundamental right or violation of any right granted
under the ICCPR Act, by any person.

Making
complaints
regarding
violation  of
rights  or  denial
of  entitlements
of  victims  of
crime  or
witnesses

10. (1) A victim of crime or witness or any other person
on  behalf  of  a  victim  of  crime  or  witness  may  make  a
complaint  regarding  the  violation  or  denial,  or  imminent
violation or denial, of any right or entitlement specified in
this Part of this Act either orally or in writing to the Authority
within thirty days from the date of the alleged violation or
denial,  or  imminent  violation  or  denial,  of  such  right  or
entitlement.

(2)   Where a complaint under subsection (1) has been
made orally, it shall be recorded forthwith in writing by the
officer receiving such complaint.

(3)  The procedure applicable for investigation or inquiry
of any complaint received by the Authority under subsection
(1) shall be as specified in the First Schedule to this Act.

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

13

11.  It shall be the duty of every public officer including
every judicial officer and every member of the armed forces
and the police force to recognize, protect and promote the
rights and entitlements of victims of crime and witnesses set
out in this Part of this Act.

12. Nothing in this Part of this Act shall be construed as-

(a) giving  any  person  a  right  to  require  a  public
authority to incur specific expenditure in relation
to rights and entitlements of victims of crime and
witnesses set out under this Part of this Act; or

(b)

requiring  a  public  authority  to  incur  expenditure
in relation to rights and entitlements of victims of
crime and witnesses set out under this Part of this
Act.

Duty  of  public
officers  to
respect  the  rights
and  entitlements
of  victims  of
crime  and
witnesses

Limitation  of
rights  and
entitlements

13.  (1)  The  Authority  shall  maintain  a  register  called
“Victim Information Register” in such form and containing
such  information  relating  to  victims  of  crime,  as  may  be
determined by the Authority.

Victim
Information
Register

(2)  A victim of crime may, on application made by himself
or through an attorney-at-law, request the Authority to register
himself in the Victim Information Register by providing the
information referred to in subsection (1).

(3) A victim of crime shall, after registration in the Victim
Information  Register,  be  entitled,  upon  a  request  made  to
the Authority, to receive information on any of the following
matters in relation to the offender, from the Authority: -

(a)

the punishment imposed on the offender;

(b)

any instance of escape from custody and recapture
of the offender, if any;

14

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(c)

the impending dates on which the offender is to be
released from custody; or

(d) details  of  appeals  against  the  conviction  and

sentence of the offender, if any.

(4)  It shall be the duty of the Authority to provide the
information requested by a victim of crime under subsection
(3) in writing without delay.

(5)  The  Authority  shall  maintain  confidentiality  with
regard to the information relating to victims of crime and
witnesses contained in the Victim Information Register and
shall not share any such information except as required by
law.

PART III

OFFENCES AGAINST VICTIMS OF
CRIME AND WITNESSES

Intimidation  to  a
victim  of  crime
or  witness

14.  Any person who threatens a victim of crime or  witness
with any harm to his person, reputation or property, or to the
person or reputation or property of any other person in whom
such  victim  of  crime  or  witness  has  an  interest,  with  the
intention of –

(a)

causing alarm to such victim of crime or witness;

(b)

causing such victim of crime or witness to refrain
from –

(i)

lodging a complaint against such person with
a law enforcement authority; or

(ii)

testifying  at  any  judicial  or  quasi-judicial
proceedings against such person; or

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

15

(c)

compelling  such  victim  of  crime  or  witness  to
withdraw  a  complaint  lodged  or  legal  action
instituted against such person,

commits an offence under this Act, and shall, on conviction,
by  the  High  Court,  be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  one
hundred  and  fifty  thousand  rupees  or  to  imprisonment  of
either description for a period not exceeding three years or
to both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, such person
may also be ordered to pay compensation of an amount not
exceeding five hundred thousand rupees.

15.  Any person who voluntarily causes hurt or grievous

hurt to a victim of crime or witness, with the intention of-

Causing  hurt  to
a  victim  of
crime  or  witness

(a)

causing such victim of crime or witness to refrain
from-

(i)

lodging a complaint against such person with
a law enforcement authority; or

(ii)

testifying  at  any  judicial  or  quasi-judicial
proceedings against such person;

(b)

(c)

compelling  such  victim  of  crime  or  witness  to
withdraw  a  complaint  lodged  or  legal  action
instituted against such person; or

retaliating  for  a  statement  made  or  testimony
provided by such victim of crime or witness in any
court  or  before  any  Commission,  against  such
person,

commits an offence under this Act, and shall on conviction
by the High Court, be liable to a fine not exceeding three
hundred  thousand  rupees  or  to  imprisonment  of  either
description for a period not exceeding five years or to both
such fine and imprisonment.

16

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

Restraining  a
victim  of  crime
or  witness

16.    Any  person  who  wrongfully  restrains  a  victim  of

crime or witness with the intention of-

(a) preventing such victim of crime or witness from-

(i)

lodging a complaint against such person with
a law enforcement authority; or

(ii)

testifying  at  any  judicial  or  quasi-judicial
proceedings against such person;

(b)

(c)

compelling  such  victim  of  crime  or  witness  to
withdraw  a  complaint  lodged  or  a  legal  action
instituted against such person; or

retaliating  for  a  statement  made  or  testimony
provided by such victim of crime or witness in any
court  or  before  any  Commission  against  such
person,

commits an offence under this Act, and shall on conviction
by the High Court, be liable to a fine not exceeding three
hundred  thousand  rupees  or  to  imprisonment  of  either
description for a period not exceeding five years or to both
such fine and imprisonment.

17.   Any person who—

(a)

(b)

compels,  or  by  practice  of  deceitful  means  or  by
abuse of authority or by any other means of illegal
practice induces or forces any victim of crime or
witness to leave any place; or

intentionally or knowingly causes any loss, damage
or  destruction  to  a  property  in  which  a  victim  of
crime or witness has a legitimate interest,

with  the  intention  of  preventing  such  victim  of  crime  or
witness from lodging a complaint or making any statement
against  such  person  to  a  law  enforcement  authority  or

Compelling  or
inducing  a
victim  of  crime
or  witness  to
leave  any  place,
or  causing  loss
or  damage  to  the
property  of  a
victim  of  crime
or  witness

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

17

testifying  against  such  person  at  any  judicial  or  quasi-
judicial proceedings or in retaliation for a statement made
to a law enforcement authority or due to the testimony made
against  such  person  in  any  judicial  or  quasi-judicial
proceedings by such victim of crime or witness, commits an
offence under this Act, and shall on conviction by the High
Court,  be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  three  hundred
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description for
a period not exceeding five years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.  In addition, such person shall also be liable
to pay such compensation as the Court may order him to pay
in relation to the loss, damage or destruction caused by him
to the property of the victim of crime or witness.

18.  Any person who causes any harassment, coercion,
physical  or  mental  suffering  or  an  adverse  change  to  the
conditions  of  employment  in  the  place  of  employment  of
another  person,  as  a  consequence  of  such  other  person
having-

Harassment  to  a
person  in  the
place  of
employment

(a) provided any information or lodged a complaint;

(b) made a statement to any law enforcement authority,

court or Commission;

(c) provided any testimony in any court or before any

Commission; or

(d)

instituted  legal  proceedings,

in relation to the commission of an offence or infringement
of any fundamental right or violation of any right under the
ICCPR Act by such person, commits an offence under this
Act, and shall on conviction by the High Court, be liable to
a  fine  not  exceeding  three  hundred  thousand  rupees  or  to
imprisonment of either description for a period not exceeding
five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

18

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

Providing
gratification  to
prevent  legal
proceedings,  &c

19.  Any person who is alleged, suspected or accused of
having committed an offence offers, provides or gives any
gratification to any other person who is-

(a)

(b)

intending  or  preparing  to  institute  legal
proceedings  against  such  first  mentioned  person
for having committed such offence; or

likely to provide information or testimony against
such first mentioned person to any law enforcement
authority, court or Commission,

with a view to preventing, discouraging or dissuading such
other person from instituting legal proceedings or providing
truthful  information  or  testimony  against  such  first
mentioned person, commits an offence under this Act, and
shall on conviction by the High Court, be liable to a fine not
exceeding  three  hundred  thousand  rupees  or  to
imprisonment of either description for a period not exceeding
five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Disclosure  of
information

20.   Any person who -

(a) having received any information provided for the
purpose  of  commencing  or  conducting  an
investigation or inquiry into an alleged offence;

(b) having gathered any information in the course of
an investigation or inquiry into an alleged offence;
or

(c) having  received  any  information  referred  to  in

paragraph (a) or (b) from another person,

provides,  issues  or  gives  to  a  third  person,  publishes  or
otherwise disseminates any such information or part thereof,
particularly  as  regards  the  identity  of  a  victim  of  crime,
witness or informant and thereby places the life of such victim
of crime, witness or informant in danger, commits an offence

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

19

under this Act, and shall, on conviction by the High Court,
be  liable  to  a  fine  not  exceeding  three  hundred  thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either description for a period
not  exceeding  five  years  or  to  both  such  fine  and
imprisonment:

Provided  however,  the  provision,  issuance  or  giving
out,  publishing  or  dissemination  of  information  in  good
faith and in accordance with or in compliance with-

(i)

any  provision  or  procedure  established  by
law;

(ii)

an order made by a court; or

(iii)

a directive issued by a person duly authorised
to do so by or under any written law,

shall not be an offence.

21.  Any person who, with the intention of obtaining any
assistance    or  protection  from  the  Authority,  the  Police
including the Protection Division, a court or Commission,
provides  any  information  knowing  or  having  reasonable
grounds to believe that such information is false, commits
an  offence  under  this  Act  and  shall,  on  conviction  by  the
High Court, be  liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred
thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description for
a  period  not  exceeding  six  years  or  to  both  such  fine  and
imprisonment.

 22.    Any person who-

(a)

(b)

is  in  charge  of,  or  is  providing  protection  or
assisting  in  providing  protection  to  a  victim  of
crime or witness; or

is  otherwise  in  possession  of  any  information
relating to the protection being afforded to a victim
of crime or witness,

Providing  false
information

Disclosure  of
information  by  a
person
providing
protection

20

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

provides, issues or gives to another person such information
and thereby places the life of such victim of crime or witness
in danger, commits an offence under this Act and shall, on
conviction  by  the  High  Court,  be  liable  to  a  fine  not
exceeding  three  hundred  thousand  rupees  or  to
imprisonment of either description for a period not exceeding
five years or to both such fine and imprisonment:

Provided  however,  the  provision,  issuance  or  giving
out of information in good faith and in accordance with or
in compliance with-

(i)

any provision or procedure established by law;

(ii)

an order made by a court; or

(iii)

a directive issued by a person duly authorised to do
so by or under any written law,

shall not be an offence.

 23.  Any person who attempts to commit, instigates or
intentionally  aids  or  abets  any  other  person  to  commit  or
engages in any conspiracy for the commission of any offence
referred  to  in  section  14,  15,  16,  17,  18,  19,  20,  21 or  22
commits  an  offence  and  shall,  on  conviction  by  the  High
Court, be liable to the same punishment provided for that
offence in such section.

24. (1) (a) An offence under section 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
19, 20, 21, 22 or 23 shall be a cognizable offence within the
meaning  of  the  Code  of  Criminal  Procedure  Act  and  a
bailable offence within the meaning of the Bail Act, No. 30
of 1997.

(b)  When enlarging a person on bail, the Magistrate’s
Court  shall  have  the  power  to  stipulate  a  condition  in  the
order, prohibiting communication with or coming into close
proximity with the victim of crime or witness or with such
other person as may be specified in such order.

Attempting,
instigating,
aiding  &  c.,  in
the  commission
of  an  offence

An  offence
under  section
14,  15,  16,  17,
18,  19,  20,  21,
22  or  23  to  be
cognizable  and
bailable

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

21

(2)  A trial against a person accused of having committed
an offence under section 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,22 or
23 shall be taken up before any other business of that court
and shall be held on a day-to-day basis and not be postponed
during the course of such trial, except due to unavoidable
circumstances which shall be specifically recorded.

(3)  If,  after  an   inquiry  by a  court, it  is  found  that  there
exists  prima facie  material  to  conclude  that  a  person
who,   at  the  relevant  point  of  time  was  on  bail  in  respect
of  any  offence alleged  to  have  been committed  by  him,
has  committed  an  offence  under  section 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
19, 20, 21, 22 or 23 of this Act, the  court that granted bail to
such  person shall cancel  such bail and  such person shall be
placed  on  remand  for  such  period  as  may  be  considered
reasonable by such court.

25. (1) In determining the appropriate sentence for any
offence  under  this  Act,  the  court  shall  have  regard  to  the
sentence prescribed for such offence in the Penal Code or
any  other  law  and  the  decisions  laid  down  by  courts  of
appellate jurisdiction with regard to the sentencing policies
on the imposition of punishments.

 (2)  Due regard shall also be given to aggravating and

mitigating circumstances attending each offence.

(3)    The  Judicial  Service  Commission  may  issue
guidelines  under  this  Act  with  respect  to  the  sentencing
policy.

26. (1) A complaint in relation to an offence under this
Part of this Act shall be made in such form and manner as
may be prescribed, to-

(a)

the Protection Division;

(b)

 the Authority; or

(c)

any  court,  Commission  or  law  enforcement
authority.

Determination
of  sentence

Making
complaints  in
relation  to
offences  under
this  Part  of  this
Act

22

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(2)   Where any complaint under paragraph (b) or (c) of
subsection  (1)  is  received  by  the  Authority  or  any  court,
Commission or law enforcement authority, such complaint
shall  forthwith  be  referred  to  the  Protection  Division  for
investigation  or  inquiry.

PART   IV

ENTITLEMENT OF A VICTIM OF CRIME OR WITNESSES
TO SEEK PROTECTION

Entitlement  to
seek  protection

Nature  of
protection  that
may  be  sought
by  a  victim  of
crime  or  witness

27.  Where a victim of crime or witness or any other person
on  behalf  of  a  victim  of  crime  or  witness  has  reasonable
grounds to believe that such victim of crime or witness may
be  subject  to  any  harm,  injury,  intimidation,  reprisal  or
retaliation as a consequence of the circumstances relating to
his being a victim of crime or witness, such victim of crime
or  witness  or  other  person  shall  be  entitled  to  apply  for
protection in terms of the provisions of this Part of this Act.

28. (1) The nature of protection that may be provided to
any victim of crime or witness under this Part of this Act may
include  –

(a)

the providing of security to the person or property;

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

the  provision  of  temporary  accommodation
including facilities for sustenance;

the  permanent  or  temporary  re-location  with  the
consent  of  the  victim  of  crime  or  witness,  as  the
case may be;

the conducting of either the entirety or part of the
proceedings in camera;

the concealing of the identity of the victim of crime
or witness;

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

23

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

in the case of a child victim of crime or witness, the
adoption  of  special  measures  to  ensure  his  best
interest and to protect his rights including the right
to  education;

the adoption of necessary measures to prevent the
victim  of  crime  or  witness  from  being  harassed,
intimidated, coerced, or influenced by encountering
the presence of the accused at the venue of the trial,
investigation  or  inquiry;

the  prevention  of  the  disclosure,  including  in  the
print media or electronic media, of the identity and
background information of the victim of crime or
witness;

the  adoption  of  appropriate  measures  to  prevent
the disclosure of evidence that may be provided by
the victim of crime or witness, save as permitted in
law for the purposes of pre-trial disclosure;

(j) where  appropriate,  the  provision  of  temporary  or

permanent  employment;  and

(k)

the  adoption  of  any  other  measure  a  court,
Commission, the Authority or Protection Division
may consider necessary.

(2)    The  Authority  or  Protection  Division  may  request
assistance  from  a  public  authority  or  public  officer  in
providing any measure of protection or assistance referred
to  in  subsection  (1)  to  a  victim  of  crime  or  witness,  and
where  such  request  is  made,  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  such
public  authority  or  public  officer,  unless  such  public
authority or public officer is unable to do so for reasons to
be stated, to assist the Authority or Protection Division as
requested.

29. (1) A victim of crime or witness who seeks protection
under this Part of this Act shall make a request in such form
and manner as may be prescribed, to-

Application  for
protection

24

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(a)

the  Authority;

(b)

the Protection Division;

(c)

any  police  station;

(d)

any court or Commission; or

(e)

any law enforcement authority or public officer.

  (2)    Where  the  request  for  protection  received  under
paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of subsection (1) is in relation to an
offence specified in the Second Schedule to this Act, such
request  shall  be  referred  to  the  Authority  or  Protection
Division, without delay.

(3)    Where  the  request  for  protection  received  under
paragraph (a), (b), (d) or (e) of subsection (1) is in relation to
an offence not specified in the Second Schedule to this Act,
such request shall be referred to the relevant police station,
without  delay.

30. (1)  Upon  receipt  or  reference  of  a  request  for
protection  under  section  29,  in  relation  to  an  offence
specified in the Second Schedule to this Act-

(a) where such request is received by or referred to the
Authority,  the  Authority  shall  take  immediate
measures to cause a threat assessment to be made in
relation to the victim of crime or witness; or

(b) where  such  request  is  received  or  referred  to  the
Protection Division, the Protection Division shall
take  immediate  measures  to  make  a  threat
assessment  in  relation  to  the  victim  of  crime  or
witness,

and  based  on  the  findings  of  such  threat  assessment,  the
Authority or Protection Division, as the case may be, shall

Threat
assessment  in
relation  to
offences
specified  in  the
Second
Schedule

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

25

take  appropriate  measures  to  provide  the  necessary
protection forthwith.

(2)   Any request for protection made under this Part of

this Act shall be treated as confidential.

31. (1) Where, in the case of an offence not specified in
the Second Schedule to this Act, the request for protection is
received by or referred to a police station under section 29,
the Protection Officer assigned to such police station under
section  38  shall  immediately  conduct  a  threat  assessment
and based on the findings of the threat assessment, and with
the concurrence of the Superintendent of Police of the area,
provide the necessary protection to the victim of crime or
witness.

 (2) In the event that-

(a)

the Authority, the Protection Division or the officer-
in charge of the police station is of the opinion that
there  is  a  serious  threat  to  a  victim  of  crime  or
witness,  in  relation  to  an  offence  which  is  not
specified in the Second Schedule; or

(b)

the victim of crime or witness alleges bias against
the police station of the area,

the Protection Division shall proceed to provide appropriate
protection to such victim of crime or witness.

32. (1)    Whenever  a    court    or    Commission      has
reasonable  grounds  to  believe  that  a  victim  of  crime  or
witness  in  any  legal   proceedings requires protection from
injury,  intimidation,  reprisal  or retaliation  or,  assistance
to  attend  and  participate  in  any legal proceedings, such
court    or    Commission      may      direct  the  Authority,  the
Protection Division, a police station  or other law enforcement
authority to take  all  necessary  measures to  provide  or
cause to be  provided  such  protection to  such  victim of

Protection  with
regard  to
offences  not
specified  in  the
Second
Schedule

Duty  of  court  or
Commission  in
relation  to
proceedings

26

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

crime or  witness  and  the Authority, the Protection Division,
such  police station or such law enforcement authority shall
comply with such direction, without delay.

(2)  In  complying  with  a  direction  issued  by  a  court  or
Commission under subsection (1), the Authority, Protection
Division, police station or law enforcement authority may
make  a  preliminary  needs  assessment  on  the  protection
needed by such victim of crime or witness and provide such
protection as may be necessary.

(3)   Whenever the Authority, Protection Division,  police
station  or  law  enforcement  authority,  after  providing
protection under subsection (2), is of the opinion that there
exists any ground for termination of protection specified in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1) of section 36,  the
Authority,  Protection  Division,  police  station  or  law
enforcement authority, as the case may be, shall report such
fact with reasons to such court or Commission and thereupon
such  court  or  Commission  may  order  the  termination  of
protection so granted.

(4) The Authority, Protection Division, a police station
or other law enforcement authority may provide necessary
protection to any victim of crime or witness, immediately
upon the receipt of any information or request or complaint
from  such  victim  of  crime  or  witness  that  such  victim  of
crime or witness is likely to be subject to any harm, injury,
harassment,  intimidation  or  retaliation,  whether  prior  to,
during or after the conduct of any legal proceedings before
any court or Commission.

33. (1) Where any law enforcement authority or public
officer  has  reasonable  grounds  to  believe  that  a  victim  of
crime or witness requires protection from any possible injury,
intimidation,  reprisal  or  retaliation  in  attending  and
participating  in  any  proceedings  under  any  law,  such  law
enforcement authority or the public officer shall forthwith
issue a communication to that effect to the Authority or to
the Protection Division.

Protection  to  be
provided  by  law
enforcement
authorities  and
public  officers

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

27

(2)  The provisions of sections 29, 30 and 31 shall mutatis
mutandis apply to and in respect of providing protection in
relation to any matter referred to in subsection (1).

34. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other written law, a court or Commission may, on application
made by or on behalf of any vulnerable victim of crime or
witness, order the Authority or the Protection Division the
grant  of  any  special  measures  for  the  protection  of  such
victim of crime or witness, as may be prescribed.

Special  measures
for  vulnerable
victims  of  crime
or  witnesses

(2) The Minister shall, when prescribing special measures
for the purposes of subsection (1), seek recommendations of
the Authority.

(3)  The court or Commission, in ordering the grant of
any special measures under subsection (1), shall ensure that
the principles of fair trial are upheld in its proceedings.

(4)  In determining the vulnerability of a victim of crime
or witness, the following factors may also be considered: -

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

the  nature  of  the  offence  alleged  to  have  been
committed and the attendant circumstances;

the nature of the evidence or statement the witness
is expected to give or make;

any  relationship  between  the  victim  of  crime  or
witness and the accused;

the age and level of understanding of the victim of
crime or witness;

the  accused’s  behavior  or  attitudes  towards  the
victim of crime or witness including the accused’s
behavior or attitudes towards the family members
or associates of, or any other person having a close
kinship to, the victim of crime or witness; and

28

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(f)

any other relevant matter including the racial, social
and cultural background of the victim of crime or
witness, the gender including transgender, sexual
orientation,  possibility  of  being  subject  to  social
marginalization,  domestic  or  employment
circumstances, religious or political beliefs, and any
physical disability or impairment the victim of crime
or witness suffers from.

(5)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other

law, a court or Commission may-

(a)

in  proceedings  relation  to  sexual  offences  or
violence,  permit  a  child  victim  of  crime  or  child
witness  to  give  evidence  or  make  a  statement
through  contemporaneous  audio-visual  linkage
from  a  remote  location,  without  requiring  his
personal  attendance  before  such  court  or
Commission; or

(b) on  being  satisfied  that  any  vulnerable  victim  of
crime or witness is unable to understand the nature
of an oath or an affirmation, permit such victim of
crime  or  witness  to  give  evidence  or  make  a
statement without an oath or an affirmation being
administered, and such victim of crime or witness
shall be informed that he is bound to state the truth
on all matters to which his evidence or statement
relates.

(6)  In  this  section,  a  “vulnerable  victim  of  crime  or

witness” includes –

(a)

(b)

a victim of crime or witness under eighteen years of
age;

a person suffering from significant impairment of
intelligence  and  social  functioning;

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

29

(c)

a victim of any sexual offence;

(d)

a person with disability;

(e)

(f)

a person who is a victim of trafficking under section
360C  of  the  Penal  Code  or  a  victim  of  domestic
violence within the meaning of the Prevention of
Domestic Violence Act, No. 34 of 2005;

any victim of crime or witness who is determined to
be  a  vulnerable  victim  of  crime  or  witness  by  a
court or Commission, upon such victim of crime or
witness  or  a  counsel  on  his  behalf  making  an
application  to  such  court  or  Commission  and
satisfying such court or Commission that he should
be treated as a vulnerable victim of crime or witness;
and

(g)

any other person whom a court or Commission may
determine  to  be  a  vulnerable  victim  of  crime  or
witness, for reasons recorded.

35.  (1)  The  Authority  or  the  Protection  Division  shall
require a Protection Officer to conduct a continuous needs
assessment  of  victims  of  crime  and  witnesses  who  have
received protection under the provisions of this Act.

(2)  A Protection Officer may, where he is of the opinion
that any protection arrangement made in respect of any victim
of crime or witness needs to be varied, vary such protection
arrangement and shall report such fact, along with the reasons
therefor, to the Protection Division through the officer-in-
charge of the relevant police station.

(3)  In deciding whether any protection arrangement shall
be varied under this section, particular regard shall be had
to-

Continuous
needs  assessment
by  Protection
Officer  and
variation  of
protection
arrangement

Cessation  of
protection

30

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(a)

(b)

(c)

the nature and the extent of the risk to the safety of
the victim of crime or witness;

the practical aspects and the costs involved in the
new arrangements; and

the ability of the victim of crime or witness or any
other  person  associated  with  him  to  adapt  to  the
changes  in  the  circumstances  arising  from  such
variation.

(4)  Where there is an urgent need to protect a victim of
crime or witness in any police division, a Protection Officer
shall make such arrangement as he considers appropriate for
the  purpose  of  providing  such  urgent  protection  to  such
victim of crime or witness.

36. (1)  Subject  to  the  provisions  of  subsection  (3)  of
section 32, the Authority, Protection Division or subject to
the provisions of subsection (2), a Protection Officer may
terminate the protection provided to any victim of crime or
witness under this Act after recording the reasons therefor,
whenever-

(a)

the need for such protection no longer exists; or

(b)

the victim of crime or witness-

(i)

requests that such protection be terminated;

(ii)

refuses to receive such protection;

(iii)

abuses the protection granted;

(iv) breaches any conditions agreed to;

(v)

is  found  to  have  provided  any  false
information,  statement,  complaint  or
testimony  to  the  Authority,  the  Protection

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

31

Division,  any  court,  Commission,  police
station or law enforcement authority, in order
to obtain protection; or

(vi) having  obtained  any  protection  in  terms  of
this Act, provides false information, statement,
complaint or testimony to the Authority, the
Protection Division, any court, Commission,
police station or law enforcement authority,
in  order  to  continue  to  receive  such
protection.

(2) A Protection Officer shall not terminate any protection
arrangement except with the concurrence of the Head of the
Protection Division.

(3) Where a victim of crime or witness is dissatisfied with
the decision to terminate protection granted to him, he may-

(a)

(b)

if such decision was taken by the Protection Officer
or the Protection Division, appeal to the Authority
against such decision; or

if such decision was taken by the Authority, appeal
to the Advisory Board appointed under section 74
against such decision.

(4)  The Authority or the Advisory Board, as the case may
be, after considering such matters as may deem necessary,
may vary in an appropriate manner, or confirm, the decision
referred to in subsection (1).

(5)  In deciding whether any protection arrangement shall
be terminated under this section, particular regard shall be
had to the nature and the extent of the risk to the safety of
the victim of crime or witness.

Duties  of  a
victim  of  crime
or  witness  in
regard  to
assistance  and
protection

Victims  and
Witnesses
Protection
Officers

32

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

37. (1) Any victim of crime or witness who has received

any assistance or protection under this Act shall not –

(a)

abuse such assistance or protection;

(b) provide any false information or testimony to the
Authority,  Protection  Division,  a  court,
Commission,  police  station  or  law  enforcement
authority;  or

(c)

act  contrary  to  the  written  advice  or  terms  and
conditions  agreed  upon  with  the  Authority  or
Protection Division.

(2)  Where there is credible information that a victim of
crime  or  witness  is  acting  in  a  manner  that  contravenes
subsection (1), the Authority or the Protection Division shall
conduct an inquiry and the findings of such inquiry shall be
communicated  to  the  court  or  Commission.  The  court  or
Commission  shall,  after  a  further  inquiry,  shall  make  an
appropriate  order  in  regard  to  the  assistance  or  protection
that has been provided to such victim of crime or witness.

38.  (1)  The  Inspector  General  of  Police  shall,  in
consultation with the Authority, assign to each police station
such number of police officers to be designated as Victims
and Witnesses Protection Officers (in this Act referred to as
“Protection Officers”) as may be necessary, for the purposes
of this Part of this Act:

Provided however, at least one of such officers shall be

a female officer.

(2)  In deciding the number of Protection Officers required
to be assigned to any police station, the Inspector General of
Police shall take into account the population of the police
division, the prevalence of serious crimes and the perceived
vulnerability  of  special  categories  of  persons  including
children, women or disabled persons in that police division
and other relevant data and statistics related to that police
division.

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

33

(3) (a)  The  Head  of  the  Protection  Division,  in
consultation with the Authority, shall issue directives to be
followed  by  the  Protection  Officers  in  performing  and
discharging their duties and functions, and such directives
shall,  where  necessary,  be  treated  as  confidential
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law.

(b)  The  Authority  shall  conduct  special  training
programmes for the purpose of developing the competence
of the Protection Officers.

(4)    A  Protection  Officer  shall  maintain  a  confidential
record of every action that he takes in providing protection
to a victim of crime or witness under this Act.

PART V

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL AUTHORITY FOR THE PROTECTION
OF VICTIMS OF CRIME AND WITNESSES

39. (1)  There  shall  be  established  an  authority  which
shall be called the National Authority for the Protection of
Victims of Crime and Witnesses (in this Act referred to as the
“Authority”).

National
Authority  for
the  Protection  of
Victims  of
Crime  and
Witnesses

(2)  The  Authority  shall,  by  the  name  assigned  to  it  by
subsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common seal, and may sue and be sued in that name.

40. (1) The duties and functions of the Authority shall

be –

Duties  and
functions  of  the
Authority

(a)

to protect and promote respect for, and recognition
of, the rights and entitlements of victims of crime
and witnesses as provided for in this Act;

34

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(b)

to  investigate  and  inquire  into  any  complaint  or
information  received  by  the  Authority  regarding
any  alleged  violation  or  denial,  or  imminent
violation  or  denial,  of  rights  and  entitlements  of
victims of crime and witnesses provided for in this
Act, and to-

(i) give directions or make recommendations to
any  person  or  authority  to  take  corrective
measures;

(ii) grant such financial or other assistance; or

(iii)

take any other appropriate measures,

that  ensure  the  protection  and  promotion  of  the
rights  and  entitlement  of  victims  of  crime  and
witnesses provided for in this Act;

(c)

(d)

to  take  necessary  steps  to  ensure  security  and
protection  of  victims  of  crime  and  witnesses,  by
way  of  providing  or  arranging  the  provision  of,
necessary  medical  treatment,  counselling  or
rehabilitation services, or reparation or restitution
measures;

to  formulate  and  implement  a  scheme  for  the
purpose of granting any interim awards to victims
of crime from the Protection Fund established under
this Act and to grant interim awards to such victims
of crime as recommended by the Advisory Board
under section 69 of this Act;

(e)

to create awareness among the public on the rights
and entitlements of victims of crime and witnesses
and the relief or remedies available to them under
this Act;

(f)

(g)

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

35

to  advise  and  make  recommendations  to  the
Department  of  Police,  any  other  Government
Department  or  statutory  institution  and  public
officers, on measures that should be implemented
to  give  effect  to,  protect  and  promote,  the  rights
and entitlements of victims of crime and witnesses
provided for in this Act;

to  review  existing  legislation,  and  the  policies,
practices  or  procedures  adopted  and  followed  by
the relevant institutions, relating to the protection
and  promotion  of  the  rights  and  entitlements  of
victims  of  crime  and  witnesses  and  to  make
recommendations, if any, to amend or update such
legislation,  policies,  practices  or  procedures  to
ensure  conformity  with  the  latest  recognized
international standards and best practices relating
to the same;

(h) upon request made by any court or Commission, to
provide  necessary  facilities  to  establish  a
contemporaneous  audio-visual  linkage  for
recording of evidence or statement of a victim of
crime or witness from a remote location;

(i)

(j)

(k)

to  develop  and  issue,  in  consultation  with  other
relevant  authorities,  guidelines  and  procedures
which ensure the best interest of victims of crime
and witnesses;

to  issue  guidelines  in  regard  to  the  independent
functioning of the Protection Division;

to  take  measures  to  sensitize  public  officers
including  Government  Medical  Officers,  officers
of the Sri Lanka Police, the Department of Prisons
or  public  officers  associated  with  probation  and
social services-

36

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(i) on the needs of any victim of crime or witness;

or

(ii) on  any  special  needs  of  any  such  specific
category of victims of crime or witnesses as
may be specified by the Authority;

(l)

to conduct or promote the carrying out of research
into ways and means through which –

(i)

the incidence of crime can be reduced;

(ii)

the impact of specific crimes on victims could
be minimized or prevented;

(iii) victims  of  crime  can  be  effectively
treated,  rehabilitated,  counselled,  assisted,
compensated  and  protected;

(iv)

(v)

the  causes  that  prevent  victims  of  crime  or
witnesses  from  seeking  redress  or  relief
through  the  available  criminal  justice
mechanisms  may  be 
identified  and
eliminated;  and

a  conducive  environment  could  be  created
for witnesses to make statements before the
law  enforcement  authorities  or  to  testify
fearlessly at any proceedings before any court
or Commission;

(m)

to promote the application and observance of codes
of conduct and recognized norms and best practices
relating  to  the  protection  of  the  rights  and
entitlements of victims of crime and witnesses, by
courts,  Commissions,  any  other  tribunals,  public
officers and employees of statutory bodies involved
in the enforcement of law, including officers of the
Sri  Lanka  Police,  the  Prisons  Department,
Government Medical Officers and officers of the
Government social service institutions;

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

37

(n)

 to make recommendations to the Government and
other appropriate authorities on the development,
adoption and implementation of-

(i)

crime  prevention  policies  in  order  to
minimize the incidence of victimization;

(ii) measures of restitution of victims of crime;

and

(iii) measures of restorative justice as an option

to  sentencing;

(o) having regard to the existing financial regulations,
to  lay  down  the  procedure  and  criteria  for  the
granting of financial assistance to victims of crime
and witnesses;

(p)

to organize training programmes on the treatment
of  child  victims  of  crime  or  child  witnesses  and
identify qualified personnel and proper procedures
that  may  be  employed  to  protect  and  meet  any
special  needs  of  such  child  victims  of  crime  or
witnesses;

(q)

to  promote  the  development,  adoption  and
implementation  of  measures  of  restitution  for
victims of crime as an option to sentencing in the
criminal justice system; and

(r)

to perform or discharge any other duty or function
that may be necessary to achieve the objects of this
Act.

(2)  Where  the  Authority  issues  any  directive  or  makes
any recommendation to any person or authority, or requires
any  person  or  authority  to  carry  out  any  measure  under
subsection  (1),  it  shall  be  the  duty  of  such  person  or
authority –

38

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(a)

to give effect to such directive or recommendations
or carry out such measure and report back to the
Authority of such fact; or

(b) where  such  person  or  authority  is  unable  to  give
effect to such directive or recommendation, or carry
out the measure, to report back to the Authority of
such inability, giving reasons for the same.

(3)  The Authority shall monitor the implementation of
the directive or recommendations or carrying out the measure
referred to in subsection (2) by calling for periodical reports
from such person, authority or any other relevant authority.

Powers  of  the
Authority

41. (1) The Authority shall have the power –

(a)

(b)

to  receive  any  complaint  or  information  on  any
alleged violation or denial, or imminent violation
or denial, of any right or entitlement of a victim of
crime or witness under this Act;

for the purpose of conducting an investigation or
inquiry  into  any  alleged  violation  or  denial,  or
imminent  violation  or  denial,  of  any  right  or
entitlement of a victim of crime or witness under
this Act, to -

(i)

(ii)

require  any  person,  other  than  a  judicial
officer or Commissioner of a Commission, to
appear before the Authority and to participate
in such investigation or inquiry;

require  any  person,  other  than  a  court  or
Commission, to produce before the Authority
any  document,  a  certified  copy  of  any
document  or  any  other  material  in  the
possession  or  custody  of  such  person,
including  any  report  of  investigation  or
inquiry,  an  extract  of  an  information  book
and extract of Police Officers’ Visiting Book
for examination and to take copies thereof;

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

39

(iii)

require  any  person,  other  than  a  court  or
Commission, to provide to the Authority in
writing  any  information  which  such  person
possesses:

Provided  however,  if  the  disclosure  of
any information is detrimental to the national
security, such person shall not be required to
provide  such  information,  and  the  onus  of
proving  that  the  information  is  confidential
shall lie with the person who so claims;

(iv)

interview  and  record  a  statement  of  any
person,  other  than  a  judicial  officer  or
Commissioner of any Commission:

(v)

 Provided however, anything stated during
the course of recording of such statement shall
not  be  used  against  such  person  at  any
subsequent trial of any charge or indictment
relating to an offence;

request any court or Commission to provide
to the Authority certified copies of the records
of  any  proceedings,  documents  and  other
material  filed  of  record  in  such  court  or
Commission relating to any alleged offence
against  a  victim  of  crime  or  witness  or  the
alleged  violation  or  denial,  or  imminent
violation  or  denial,  of  any  right  or
entitlement of a victim of crime or witness,
without  the  payment  of  any  fee,  provided
sufficient  justification  is  shown  for  such
request;  and

(vi)

subject  to  prior  approval  of  the  relevant
authorities, enter into, inspect or examine any
place or location, or observe and record any
event  or  process  progressing  in  any  place,
including  an  investigation,  inquiry,  trial  or
other  proceeding;

40

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(c)

for the purpose of providing redress to any victim
of crime or witness, to-

(i) make an appropriate order to remedy, or to
provide relief, or to take corrective measures
on  any  damage  caused  as  a  result  of  the
violation  of  rights  or  denial  of entitlements
of any victim of crime or witness under this
Act;

 (ii) direct,  advise  or  recommend  the  relevant
authorities to adopt appropriate measure for
the promotion or protection of the rights and
entitlements of any victim of crime or witness
under this Act; and

(iii) use  mechanisms  including  conciliation  and
mediation in addition to other available legal
mechanisms;

to make representations to the Attorney-General or
any other authority on the basis of any investigation
or inquiry into any alleged violation or denial, or
imminent  violation  or  denial,  of  any  right  or
entitlement of a victim of crime or witness under
this Act;

to  direct  the  Protection  Division  to  take  over  an
investigation or inquiry into any offence under this
Act under paragraph (f) of subsection (1) of section
56;

to  acquire,  hold,  take  or  give  on  lease  or  hire,
mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of any
movable or immovable property;

to enter into such contracts as may be necessary for
the  performance  and  discharge  of  its  duties  and
functions;

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

(j)

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

41

to  invest  monies  lying  to  the  credit  of  the
Protection Fund in an appropriate and secure manner
and open and maintain current, savings or deposit
accounts in banks;

to appoint, dismiss and exercise disciplinary control
over officers and other employees, consultants and
advisors of the Authority as may be necessary for
the proper performance and discharge of its duties
and  functions;

subject to the provisions of subsection (2), to accept
and  receive  donations,  gifts,  bequests  and  grants
from any source within or outside Sri Lanka and to
utilize  the  same  for  the  proper  performance  and
discharge of its duties and functions; and

(k)

to do all such other things as may be necessary for
the proper performance and discharge of its duties
and functions under this Act.

(2)  The  Authority  or  the  Protection  Division  shall  not
obtain any assistance from any foreign government or foreign
or  international  organization  in  providing  assistance  or
protection to a victim of crime or witness, without the prior
approval of the Department of External Resources.

(3) Any person who, without justifiable reason, fails to
comply  with  any  requirement,  direction  or  order  made  or
issued by the Authority in the exercise of the powers vested
in the Authority under this section, commits an offence and
shall, on conviction by a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not
exceeding  three  hundred  thousand  rupees  or  to
imprisonment of either description for a period not exceeding
five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

42

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

Board  of
Management  of
the  Authority

42. (1) The  administration  and  management  of  the
affairs  of  the  Authority  shall  be  vested  in  a  Board  of
Management (in this Act referred to as the “Board”).

(2) The  Board  shall,  for  the  purpose  of  administering
and managing the affairs of the Authority, exercise, perform,
and  discharge  the  powers,  duties  and  functions  conferred
on, assigned to, or imposed on, the Authority by this Act.

(3) The Board shall consist of-

(a)

the following ex-officio members –

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned  the  subject  of  Justice  or  an
Additional  Secretary  to  such  Ministry,
nominated by such Secretary;

the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned  the  Department  of  Police  or  an
Additional  Secretary  to  such  Ministry,
nominated by such Secretary;

the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Women’s Affairs or
an  Additional  Secretary  to  such  Ministry,
nominated by such Secretary;

the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned  the  subject  of  Children  or  an
Additional  Secretary  to  such  Ministry,
nominated by such Secretary;

a member of the Human Rights Commission
of Sri Lanka established by the Human Rights
Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No.  21 of 1996,
nominated by such Commission;

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

43

(vi)

the Chairman of the Legal Aid Commission
established by the Legal Aid Law, No. 27 of
1978  or  a  nominee  of  such  Chairman  not
below the rank of Commissioner;

(vii)

the  Commissioner-General  of  Prisons  or  a
nominee of such Commissioner-General not
below the rank of Commissioner;

(viii)

a nominee of the Attorney- General; and

(ix)

a nominee of the Inspector General of Police
holding the rank of Senior Deputy Inspector
General of Police:

Provided however, where two or more subjects
specified  in  subparagraph  (i),  (ii),  (iii),  or  (iv)  of
this  paragraph  are  assigned  to  a  single  Ministry,
the nomination of a member of that Ministry to the
Authority shall be by the Secretary to the Ministry
of the Minister assigned those subjects; and

(b)

five  members  who  are  academically  or
professionally qualified and have experience in the
field  of  Law,  Criminology,  Human  Rights  or
Medicine,  or  in  social  service  or  civil  society
activities  appointed  by  the  President  (in  this  Act
referred to as the“appointed members”).

43. (1) The President shall appoint one member of the
Board as the Chairman of the Board who shall also be the
Chairman of the Authority.

Chairman  of  the
Authority

(2)  The Chairman of the Authority shall be appointed for
a  period  of  three  years  and  shall  be  eligible  for  re-
appointment.

44

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

 (3)  The Chairman of the Authority may, at any time,
resign from the office of Chairman by a letter addressed to
the President and such resignation shall take effect upon it
being accepted by the President in writing.

(4)  Where the Chairman of the Authority is, by reason of
illness  or  absence  from  Sri  Lanka,  temporarily  unable  to
perform the duties of his office, the President shall appoint
another member of the Board to act in his place.

(5)   The President may, for reasons assigned, remove the

Chairman of the Authority from the office of Chairman.

44.  A person shall be disqualified from being appointed

or continuing as a member of the Board, if such person –

(a)

is or becomes, a member of Parliament, a Provincial
Council or any local authority;

(b)

is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)

(d)

is, under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any
other country, found or declared to be of unsound
mind; or

is serving or has served, a sentence of imprisonment
imposed  by  any  court  in  Sri  Lanka  or  any  other
country.

Disqualifications
for  being  a
member  of  the
Board

Resignation  and
removal  of
appointed
members  of  the
Board

45. (1) An appointed member of the Board may, at any
time, resign from his office by letter to that effect addressed
to the President and such resignation shall take effect upon
it being accepted in writing by the President.

(2)  The President may, for reasons assigned, by Order
published in the Gazette, remove an appointed member of
the Board from office and such member shall cease to hold
office from and after the date of publication of such Order in
the Gazette.

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

45

(3)   In the event of any appointed member of the Board
vacating office by death, resignation or removal from office,
the  President  shall,  having  regard  to  the  provisions  of
paragraph (b) of subsection (3) of section 42, appoint another
person to succeed such member.

(4) The  member  appointed  under  subsection  (3)  shall
hold office for the unexpired period of the term of office of
the member whom be succeeds.

(5)  Where any appointed member of the Board, by reason
of illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a period
not less than three months, is temporarily unable to perform
the duties of the office, such member shall inform the President
in writing, of such inability. Thereupon, the President may,
having regard to the provisions of paragraph (b) of subsection
(3) of section 42, appoint another person to act in his place
for such period.

46. Every appointed member of the Board shall, unless
such member vacates office earlier by death, resignation or
removal, hold office for a term of three years from the date of
his appointment and shall, unless he has been removed from
office, be eligible for re-appointment.

Term  of  office
of  an  appointed
member

47. The  members  of  the  Board  may  be  paid  such
remuneration out of the Fund of the Authority, at such rates
as may be determined by the President in consultation with
the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

Remuneration
of  members

48.  (1)  The  Chairman  of  the  Board  shall,  if  present,
preside at every meeting of the Board.  In the absence of the
Chairman from any such meeting, the members present shall
elect one of the members present, to preside at such meeting.

Meetings  of  the
Board

 (2)  The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be

five members.

46

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(3)  The Chairman or the member presiding at any meeting
of  the  Board  may  regulate  the  procedure  in  regard  to  its
meetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.

(4)  All matters for decision by the Board shall be dealt
with at a meeting of the Board and shall be determined by
the majority of the members present and voting.

(5)   In the event of an equality of votes on any matter
considered at a meeting of the Board, the Chairman or the
member presiding at such meeting shall have a casting vote
in addition to his original vote.

(6)  Subject  to  the  preceding  provisions  of  this  section,
the  Board  may  regulate  the  procedure  in  regard  to  its
meetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.

Any  act  not
invalidated  by
reason  of  a
vacancy  in  the
Board

49. No act, decision or proceeding of the Board shall be
deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of any
vacancy  therein,  or  any  defect  in  the  appointment  of  any
member thereof.

Seal  of  the
Authority

50. (1) The seal of the Authority shall be as determined
by the Board and may be altered in such manner as may be
determined by the Board.

(2)  The seal of the Authority shall be in the custody of
such person as the Board may determine from time to time.

(3)  The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to any
instrument or document except with the sanction of the Board
and in the presence of two members of the Board, who shall
sign the instrument or document in token of their presence.

(4)  The  Board  shall  maintain  a  register  of  instruments
and documents to which the seal of the Authority has been
affixed.

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

47

PART VI

APPOINTMENT OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL AND STAFF OF THE
AUTHORITY

51. (1) There shall be a Director-General of the Authority
(in this Act referred to as the “Director-General”) who shall
be a person with professional qualifications in the field of
Law,  Administration  or  Criminology  with  at  least  fifteen
years of experience in any of such fields.

Director-General
of  the  Authority

(2)  The Director-General shall be appointed by the Board

and shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority.

(3) The Director-General shall, subject to the general or

special directions and supervision of the Board–

(a) be charged with the administration and management
of  the  affairs  of  the  Authority,  including  the
administration and control of the staff; and

(b) be responsible for the performance and discharge
of all such duties and functions assigned to him by
the Board.

(4)  (a)  The  Board  may,  in  writing  and  subject  to  such
conditions  as  may  be  specified  therein,  delegate  to  the
Director-General any of the powers, duties or functions of
the  Authority,  and  the  Director-General  shall  exercise,
perform or discharge such powers, duties or functions in the
name and on behalf of the Authority.

(b) The Board may, notwithstanding any delegation made
under paragraph (a), by itself exercise, perform or discharge
any powers, duties or functions so delegated and may at any
time revoke such delegation.

48

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(5) The Director-General may, with the written approval
of the Board, whenever he considers it necessary to do so,
delegate in writing to any officer of the Authority any of his
powers, duties or functions and such officer shall exercise,
perform or discharge such powers, duties or functions subject
to the general or special direction of the Director-General.

(6)  The term of office of the Director-General shall be
three years from the date of appointment and he shall, unless
removed from office under subsection (7), be eligible for re-
appointment.

  (7)    The  Board  may,  with  reasons  assigned  therefor,
remove  the  Director-General  from  office,  if  the  Director-
General-

(a) becomes permanently incapable of performing his

duties;

(b)

commits any act which, in the opinion of the Board,
is of a fraudulent or illegal character or is prejudicial
to the interests of the Authority; or

(c)

fails  to  comply  with  any  direction  issued  by  the
Board.

(8)  The office of the Director-General shall become vacant
upon the death, removal from office under subsection (7) or
resignation by letter in that behalf addressed to the Board
by the holder of that office.

(9)  Where  the  office  of  the  Director-General  becomes
vacant, the Board shall appoint another person to such office,
having regard to the provisions of subsection (1).

(10)  A member of the Board shall not be eligible to be
appointed,  whether  permanently  or  temporarily,  as  the
Director-General.

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

49

52. (1)  The  Authority  may  appoint  as  staff  of  the
Authority such number of officers and other employees as
may be necessary for the efficient discharge of its functions.

Staff  of  the
Authority

(2) The Authority may, in respect of the officers and other
employees appointed to the Authority under subsection (1) –

(a) determine the terms and conditions of employment

of such officers and employees;

(b)

(c)

(d)

fix the rates at which such officers and employees
shall  be  remunerated  in  keeping  with  related
guidelines of the Government;

exercise disciplinary control over or dismiss such
officers and employees; and

establish staff welfare and social security schemes
for the benefit of such officers and employees and
make contribution to any such schemes.

(3) The Board may make rules in respect of all or any of

the matters referred to in subsection (2).

(4) The Authority shall not appoint as an officer or other
employee  of  the  Authority,  any  person  who  has  been
dismissed from any previous position held by such person
in the public or private sector.

53.  (1)  At  the  request  of  the  Authority,  any  officer  in
the  public  service  may,  with  the  consent  of  that  officer
and the  Secretary  to the  Ministry  by  or  under  which  that
officer  is   employed,  and  the  Secretary  to  the  Ministry of
the Minister assigned the subject of Public  Administration,
be  temporarily  appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Authority  for
such period as may be determined by the Authority or  with
like  consent,  be  permanently  appointed  to  the  staff  of the
Authority.

Appointment  of
public  officers
to  the  staff  of
the  Authority

50

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(2)  Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Authority,  the  provisions  of
subsection  (2)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.

(3)  Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed  to  the  staff  of  the  Authority,  the  provisions  of
subsection  (3)  of  section  14  of  the  National  Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.

(4)  Where  the  Authority  employs  any  person,  who  has
entered  into  a  contract  with  the  Government  by  which  he
has agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,
any period of service with the Authority by that person shall
be regarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of such contract.

PART   VII

VICTIMS OF CRIME AND WITNESSES ASSISTANCE AND
PROTECTION DIVISION

Establishment  of
the  Victims  of
Crime  and
Witnesses
Assistance  and
Protection
Division

54. (1) There shall be established a Victims of Crime and
Witnesses Assistance and Protection Division (in this Act
referred to as the “Protection   Division”) consisting of such
number  of  police  officers  as  may  be  determined  by  the
Authority, for the purpose of conducting investigations or
inquiries  in  relation  to  offences  under  this  Act  and  of
providing assistance and protection to victims of crime and
witnesses under this Act.

(2)  The police officers of the Protection Division shall be
appointed subject to the provisions of the Constitution, on
the nomination made by the Inspector General of Police in
consultation with the Authority.

(3)  The Inspector General of Police, in consultation with
the Authority, shall determine the criteria for the selection
of police officers to the Protection Division, and such criteria
shall be published in the Gazette.

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

51

(4) The Inspector General of Police, with the concurrence
of the Authority, shall nominate a suitably qualified police
officer not below the rank of Senior Superintendent of Police
as the Head of the Protection Division who shall act under
the  supervision  of  a  Senior  Deputy  Inspector  General  of
Police and a Deputy Inspector General of Police nominated
by the Inspector General of Police.

(5)  All matters relating to the appointment, promotion,
transfer,  disciplinary  control  and  dismissal  of  the  police
officers  of  the  Protection  Division  shall  be  determined  in
terms  of  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution,  on  the
recommendation  of  the  Inspector  General  of  Police.  The
Inspector  General  of  Police  may  seek  the  views  of  the
Authority in making recommendations on  any such matter.

(6)  (a)  The  Authority  shall  make  rules  to  ensure  the
confidentiality of the affairs of the Protection Division and
impartiality and accountability of the police officers of the
Protection  Division  in  the  performance  and  discharge  of
their duties and functions under this Act.

(b)  Every  police  officer  appointed  to  the  Protection
Division shall undertake in writing to abide by such rules.

(7)  (a)  The  Authority  shall  refer  any  complaint  with
regard  to  any  wilful  non-compliance  with  any  relevant
provision  of  this  Act  or  any  rule  made  by  the  Authority
under paragraph (a) of subsection (6), by any police officer
of the Protection Division to the Inspector General of Police,
who  shall  inquire  into  such  complaint  and  take  such
measures  as  may  be  deemed  appropriate  in  the  relevant
circumstances.

(b)  A certificate issued by the Authority stating that a
police  officer  of  the  Protection  Division  has  contravened
any such provision or rule shall be prima facie evidence for
the purpose of initiating any action or inquiry against such
police officer.

52

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

Protection
Division  to  have
islandwide
jurisdiction

      55. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other  written  law,  the  Protection  Division  shall  have
islandwide jurisdiction to receive, investigate or inquire into
any complaint in relation to an offence under Part III of this
Act-

Powers,  duties
and  functions  of
the  Protection
Division

(a) made directly to the Protection Division;

(b) made to the Authority and referred to the Protection

Division; or

(c)

referred  to  the  Protection  Division  by  any  court,
Commission or law enforcement authority.

(2)    Every police officer attached to any police station
shall, whenever requested by the Protection Division, assist
the  Protection  Division,  in  exercising,  performing  and
discharging the powers, duties and functions of the Protection
Division.

56. (1) The powers, duties and functions of the Protection

Division shall be –

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

to investigate or inquire into complaints received
by  the  Protection  Division  or  referred  to  the
Protection  Division  by  the  Authority,  any  court,
Commission  or  law  enforcement  authority  under
the provisions of this Act;

to provide assistance and protection to victims of
crime and witnesses;

to  lay  down  conditions  for  admitting  a  victim  of
crime or witness into a specific programme referred
to in section 59;

in the case of imminent threat to any victim of crime
or  witness,  provide  immediate  protection  to  such
victim of crime or witness;

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

53

(e)

to  provide  necessary  guidance  and  advice,  on
request  by  a  police  station,  with  regard  to  the
conduct  of  an  investigation  or  inquiry  into  an
offence under this Act by such police station;

(f) on  receipt  of  a  direction  issued  by  the  Authority
based  on  the  gravity  and  the  seriousness  of  the
circumstances,  to  take  over  any  investigation  or
inquiry into any offence under this Act against any
victim of crime or witness; and

(g) where the Protection Division is of the opinion that
the  gravity  and  the  seriousness  of  any  alleged
offence under this Act warrants its intervention in
the  conduct  of  the  investigation  or  inquiry  into
such  offence,  to  take  over  such  investigation  or
inquiry, with the concurrence of the Authority.

(2)   The officers attached to the Protection Division shall
maintain  confidentiality  with  regard  to  matters  relating  to
victims  of  crime  and  witnesses  and  shall  not  share  any
information on such matters except as required by law.

PART VIII

THE ASSISTANCE AND PROTECTION PROGRAMME FOR VICTIMS OF
CRIME AND WITNESSES

57. (1)  The  Authority  shall,  in  consultation  with  the
Protection  Division  and  based  on  the  guidelines  to  be
developed  by  the  Authority,  draw  up  an  Assistance  and
Protection  General  Programme  for  Victims  of  Crime  and
Witnesses  containing  the  procedure  for  the  provision  of
assistance and protection to victims of crime and  witnesses
(in this Act referred to as the “General Programme”).

Assistance  and
Protection
General
Programme  for
Victims  of
Crime  and
Witnesses

54

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(2)  In developing guidelines for the General Programme,
the  Authority  shall  have  due  regard  to  the  international
norms,  standards,  policies,  procedures  and  best  practices
meant for granting assistance and protection to victims of
crime and witnesses.

Duty  of  the
Authority  to
share
information  on
the  General
Programme

58. (1) The Authority shall-

(a)

(b)

share  information  among  the  public  about  the
General Programme;

create awareness among the public on the General
Programme including-

(i)

(ii)

the  procedure  to  be  followed  in  seeking
assistance  and  protection,  whenever  any
offence  specified  in  Part  III  of  this  Act  is
committed in relation to a victim of crime or
witness;

the available methods in which any relevant
authority may be contacted without delay for
the  purpose  of  obtaining  assistance  and
protection  for  a  victim  of  crime  or  witness
under such General Programme; and

(iii)

the  nature  of  assistance  and  protection  that
may be sought under the General Programme.

(2) (a) The Authority shall formulate a manual containing
the  General  Programme  referred  to  in  subsection  (1),  and
shall ensure that such manual is made available to all relevant
persons, authorities and institutions entrusted with the duty
of providing assistance and protection to victims of crimes
and witnesses.

(b)    It  shall  be  the  duty  of  every  person,  authority  or
institution  which  has  the  responsibility  of  implementing
the General Programme to comply with the guidelines issued
in relation to such General Programme in providing assistance
and protection to victims of crime and witnesses.

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

55

59. (1)  The  Protection  Division  shall,  based  on  the
General  Programme  drawn  up  by  the  Authority  and  the
guidelines issued in that connection by the Authority, adopt
a specific programme for the purpose of providing assistance
and protection to any victim of crime or witness (in this Act
referred to as a “specific programme”).

Adopting  a
specific
programme  for
a  victim  of
crime  or  witness

(2)   The Protection Division may admit a victim of crime

or witness to a specific programme on –

(a)

a request made by a victim of crime or witness;

(b)

a recommendation made by the Authority;

(c)

(d)

a report submitted by any law enforcement authority
or a public officer; or

a  notification  received  from  a  court  or
Commission.

(3)  The Protection Division shall lay down the conditions
to be complied with for admitting a victim of crime or witness
into a specific programme.

(4) Prior to admitting a victim of crime or witness to any
specific  programme  under  subsection  (1),  the  Protection
Division  shall  require  such  victim  of  crime  or  witness  to
express  his  consent  in  writing  to  avail  himself  of  the
protection or assistance under such specific programme and
to  abide  by  the  conditions  stipulated  by  the  Authority  or
Protection Division in relation to such specific programme.

PART   IX

COMPENSATION AND INTERIM AWARDS

60. The  payment  of  any  compensation  or  making  an
interim award to a victim of crime under this Part of this Act
shall be based on just and equitable basis.

Compensation
and  interim
awards  to  be
made  on  just
and  equitable
basis

Court  may  order
compensation

56

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

61. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other written law, a court may, on conviction of an accused,
in addition to any penal sanction that may be imposed on
the convicted person in respect of the offence for which he is
convicted,  order  the  convicted  person  to  pay  to  the  court
such amount of compensation as may be determined by such
court, under this Act.

(2)  Where a court makes an order under subsection (1),

the court may-

(a)

specify the time within which such compensation
shall be paid; or

(b) order  the  compensation  to  be  paid  on  instalment

basis, depending on the circumstances.

(3)  Any sum ordered to be paid by the court under this
section shall be recoverable as if it were a fine imposed by
such  court,  and  the  provisions  relating  to  recovery  of
compensation contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure
Act shall apply to the recovery of compensation under this
section.

(4)  Where the convicted person is impecunious or he has
no assets to be forfeited to recover compensation, the court
may order the Authority to pay, subject to the availability of
resources and in accordance with the succeeding provisions
of  this  Act,  a  sum  of  money  as  compensation  that  is
commensurate  to  the  victimization,  not  exceeding  rupees
one million to the victim of crime.

Default  of
payment  of
compensation

62. Where  a  convicted  person  fails  to  pay  the
compensation ordered to be paid under section 61, he shall
be  liable-

(a)

if such order was made by the Magistrate’s Court,
to imprisonment of either description for a period
not exceeding two years; or

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

57

(b)

if  such  order  was  made  by  the  High  Court,  to
imprisonment of either description for a period not
exceeding five years:

Provided however, if the court is satisfied upon inquiry
that  the  convicted  person  does  not  have  the  necessary
financial resources to pay the compensation, the court may
enter a community based correction order, and where such
order is entered, the provisions relating to community based
correction  orders  contained  in  the  Community  Based
Corrections  Act,  No.  46  of  1999  shall,  mutatis  mutandis,
apply in relation to that order.

63. The  court  may,  before  making  an  order  to  pay
compensation under section 61, take the following matters
into consideration: -

Matters  to  be
considered
before  ordering
to  pay
compensation

(a)

all  information  relating  to  the  offence  including
the nature of the injury suffered by the victim of
crime as a result of the offence;

(b)

any aggravating or mitigating factors;

(c)

(d)

the report of the Government Medical Officer who
has examined the victim of crime;

any evidence of psychological or emotional harm
that may have been caused to the victim of crime;

 (e)

any loss of earnings suffered by the victim of crime
on account of the injury;

(f)

any expenses including medical expenses incurred
by the victim of crime;

(g)

the  victim  impact  statement  referred  to  in
section  8;

58

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(h)

any other compensation that has already been paid
to such victim of crime by the convicted person, or
any  other  compensation  recovered  from  the
convicted person by any other court, Commission,
body or person, or any other award that may have
already been made to such victim of crime; and

(i)

any other information that may assist the court or
the Authority to determine the nature and the extent
of injury, damage or loss that such victim of crime
may have suffered as a result of the offence.

Onus  of  proving
the  claim

64. (1) The onus of proving a claim for compensation or
interim award under this Part of this Act shall lie with the
person who makes the claim.

(2)    Notwithstanding  any  rule  of  evidence  or  any
prohibition  in  respect  of  the  admissibility  of  evidence,  a
court determining the payment of compensation under this
Act  or  the  Authority  determining  on  the  payment  of  an
interim  award  under  this  Act,  may  take  into  account  any
statement of a victim of crime or witness or any other person
relevant to the proceedings.

Receipt  of
compensation
not  to  be  a  bar
to  civil
proceedings

65. (1)  Where  a  court  recovers  any  amount  as
compensation  from  a  convicted  person  under  section  61,
such court shall remit twenty per centum of the money so
recovered  to  the  Protection  Fund  and  the  balance  amount
shall  be  paid  to  the  victim  of  crime,  his  next  of  kin,
dependents or heirs as the case may be.

(2)    The  receipt  of  compensation  by  a  victim  of  crime
under this section shall not prejudice the right of such victim
of  crime  to  claim  any  damages  in  any  civil  proceedings,
provided that when determining the quantum of damages to
be awarded, such civil court may take into consideration the
compensation already received by such victim of crime under
this  section.

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

59

66. (1) Any person aggrieved by the decision of the court
under  this  Act  in  regard  to  the  quantum  of  compensation
awarded or the refusal to award compensation by the court,
shall have a right to seek a review of such decision-

Appeals

(a) where  such  decision  has  been  taken  by  a
Magistrate’s Court, in the High Court of the Province
having  jurisdiction;  or

(b) where such decision has been taken by a High Court,

in the Court of Appeal.

(2)   The provisions relating to the procedure for seeking
review  of  decisions  contained  in  Part  VII  of  the  Code  of
Criminal Procedure Act shall mutatis mutandis apply to the
filing  of  applications  for  review  of  decisions  under  this
section.

67. (1)  The  Authority  may  consider  paying  an  interim
award  of  money  to  a  victim  of  crime  in  exceptional
circumstances  in  the  case  of  a  serious  offence,  on  the
recommendation  of  the  Advisory  Board  as  set  out  in
section  69.

Authority  may
make  an  interim
award  of  money
in  exceptional
circumstances

(2)  The interim award referred to in subsection (1) may

be made, depending on the availability of resources-

(a) on the application of a victim of crime or any other
person on his behalf, as provided for in section 68;
and

(b)

irrespective of the final outcome of the proceedings
relating  to  the  offence  alleged  to  have  been
committed.

(3)  For the purposes of this section, a “serious offence”
means  an  offence  which  is  punishable  with  a  sentence  of
minimum of five years of imprisonment, with or without a
fine.

60

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

Application  for
interim  award  of
money  from  the
Authority

68. (1) (a) A victim of crime or any other person on his
behalf may make an application to the Authority for interim
award of money supported by an affidavit, along with any
other document as may be specified by the Authority. The
affidavit  shall  contain  a  true  declaration  of  all  sources  of
income of the victim of crime.

Advisory  Board
to  recommend
granting  of
interim  awards

(b)  Where the application, affidavit and other documents
are submitted by another person on behalf of the victim of
crime under paragraph (a), such person shall clearly state the
reasons as to why the victim of crime cannot submit such
application, affidavit and other documents by himself.

(2)  The Authority shall refer any application, affidavit
and  other  documents  received  under  subsection  (1)  to  the
Advisory Board, for recommendations.

69. (1) Upon receipt of a reference under subsection (2)

of section 68, the Advisory Board shall-

(a)

consider each application for interim award on just
and equitable basis; and

(b) make  its  recommendations  to  the  Authority
whether to grant an interim award to the victim of
crime,

within fourteen days from the receipt of the reference.

(2)   In making recommendations on an application under

subsection (1), the Advisory Board shall-

(a)

(b)

take  into  account  all  attendant  circumstances  of
the offence committed against the victim of crime
and the injuries suffered by the victim of crime;

consider  all  relevant  evidence,  documents  and
material  that  would  establish  the  authenticity  of
the claim for interim award; and

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

61

(c)

take into account any compensation that has already
been paid to the victim of crime by the accused or
convicted person or that has already been recovered
from the accused or convicted person by any court,
Commission,  body  or  person,  in  respect  of  the
offence alleged to have been committed.

70. (1) Upon receipt of recommendations of the Advisory
Board under section 69, the Authority may, in accordance
with the guidelines issued by the Authority, make an interim
award to a victim of crime.

Grant  of  interim
award

(2)  The sum of money awarded to a victim of crime as
interim award shall, on an order of the Authority which shall
be made subject to the provisions of subsection (3), be repaid
by  him  to  the  Authority  as  per  the  scheme  of  repayment
referred to in subsection (4).

 (3) (a) Any order made by the Authority for the repayment
of  the  interim  award  shall  be  dependent  on  the  earing
capacity  of  the  victim  of  crime  as  declared  by  him  in  his
affidavit.

(b)   If the victim of crime is unemployed or has no means
of income to repay the interim award, an order shall not be
made for the repayment of the interim award.

(4)  Where an order is made for the repayment of an interim
award, the Authority shall enter into a scheme of repayment
with the victim of crime.

(5)  The Authority may periodically assess the level of
earning capacity of a victim of crime and vary an order made
for the repayment of an interim award.

71. (1) Where a person fails, on an order made by the
Authority, to repay any sum of money received as interim
award  under  section  70,  the  Magistrate’s  Court  having
jurisdiction  shall-

Failure  to  repay
the  interim
award

62

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(a) on application made to such Court by the Authority;

and

(b) upon  a  certificate  issued  to  the  Magistrate  under
the hand of the Chairman of the Authority that such
sum of money has not been repaid,

recover such sum of money as a fine imposed by the Court.

(2)  A certificate issued under paragraph (b) of subsection
(1) shall be prima facie evidence of the fact of such non-
payment.

Authority  to
issue  guidelines
relating  to
interim  awards

 72.  The Authority shall, in consultation with the Advisory
Board, issue guidelines in relation to the following matters
pertaining to interim awards under this Part of this Act:-

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

the form and manner of application for an interim
award;

the time within which an application may be made
for the payment of an interim award;

the  circumstances  under  which  an  interim  award
may be paid;

the procedure and manner of payment of an interim
award;

the conditions under which an interim award may
be made;

the  circumstances  under  which  an  interim  award
may be repaid;

the procedure for repayment of an interim award;
and

the  circumstances  under  which  an  interim  award
may be withheld or the amount of award reduced.

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

63

73. (1)  A  person  shall  not  be  entitled  to  receive  any
compensation  from  a  court  or  an  interim  award  from  the
Authority under this Act, if-

Non-
entitlement  for
compensation
or  interim
award

(a)

it is established that the act constituting the alleged
offence -

(i) has not occurred;

(ii)

is not covered under the criminal law; or

(iii) has  been  committed  in  self  defence  against

an attack by the victim of crime;

(b)

(c)

the victim of crime is proved to be a member of an
organized criminal group, at the time of or after, the
commission of the offence; or

at the end of or during the course of proceedings, as
the case may be, the victim of crime is found to be
guilty  of  any  offence  specified  in  the  Second
Schedule to this Act.

(2)  Only a Sri Lankan citizen shall be eligible to make a
claim for and receive an interim award from the Authority
under this Act.

74. (1)  The  Minister  shall,  in  consultation  with  the
Authority,  appoint  an  Advisory  Board  on  Awards  (in  this
Act  referred  to  as  the  “Advisory  Board”),  to  make
recommendations to the Authority on the  payment  of  any
interim award of money under section 67.

Advisory  Board
on  Awards

(2)  The Advisory Board shall consist of-

(a)

a  retired  Judicial  Officer,  appointed  by  the
Minister;

64

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

a  representative  of  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister
assigned the subject of Finance, not below the rank
of  Senior  Assistant  Secretary,  nominated  by  the
Secretary to such Ministry;

a  representative  of  the  Ministry  of  the  Minister
assigned the subject of Justice, not below the rank
of  Senior  Assistant  Secretary,  nominated  by  the
Secretary to such Ministry;

a representative of the Auditor-General, nominated
by the Auditor-General; and

an attorney-at-law having not less than twenty years
of  experience  in  the  field  of  Law  of  Delict,
appointed by the Minister.

Chairman  of
Advisory  Board

75. (1)  The  Minister  shall  appoint  the  retired  Judicial
Officer referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section
74 as the Chairman of the Advisory Board.

(2)    The  Chairman  of  the  Advisory  Board  shall  be
appointed for a period of three years and shall be eligible for
re-appointment.

(3)    The  Chairman  of  the  Advisory  Board  may,  at  any
time,  resign  from  the  office  by  a  letter  addressed  to  the
Minister and such resignation shall take effect upon it being
accepted by the Minister in writing.

(4)  Where the Chairman of the Advisory Board is, by
reason  of  illness  or  absence  from  Sri  Lanka,  temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office, the Minister shall
appoint another member of the Advisory Board to act in his
place.

(5)   The Minister may, for reasons assigned, remove the
Chairman of the Advisory Board from the office of Chairman.

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

65

76. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as a member of the Advisory Board, if such
person –

Disqualifications
for  being  a
member  of  the
Advisory  Board

(a)

is or becomes, a member of Parliament, a Provincial
Council or any local authority;

(b)

is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)

(d)

is, under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any
other country, found or declared to be of unsound
mind; or

is serving or has served, a sentence of imprisonment
imposed  by  any  court  in  Sri  Lanka  or  any  other
country.

77. (1)  A  member  of  the  Advisory  Board  may,  at  any
time, resign from his office by letter to that effect addressed
to the Minister and such resignation shall take effect upon it
being accepted in writing by the Minister.

Resignation  and
removal  of  a
member  of  the
Advisory  Board

(2)  The  Minister  may,  for  reasons  assigned,  by  Order
published in the Gazette, remove a member of the Advisory
Board  from  office  in  consultation  with  any  person  who
nominated  such  member  to  the  Advisory  Board  under
subsection (2) of section 74 of this Act, if he is found guilty
of-

(a) misconduct in the performance of his duties; or

(b)

an offence involving fraud or dishonesty.

(3)  A  member  of  the  Advisory  Board  who  is  removed
from office under subsection (2), shall cease to hold office
from and after the date of publication of such Order in the
Gazette.

66

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(4) In the event of any member of the Advisory Board
vacating office by death, resignation or removal from office,
the  Minister  shall,  having  regard  to  the  provisions  of
subsection  (2)  of  section  74,  appoint  another  person  to
succeed such member.

(5) The member appointed under subsection (4) shall hold
office for the unexpired period of the term of office of the
member whom he succeeds.

(6)  Where any member of the Advisory Board, by reason
of illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a period of
not less than three months, is temporarily unable to perform
the duties of the office, such member shall inform the Minister
in writing, of such inability. Thereupon, the Minister may,
having regard to the provisions of subsection (2) of section
74, appoint another person to act in his place for such period.

Term  of  office
of  a  member  of
the  Advisory
Board

78. Every member of the Advisory Board shall, unless
such member vacates office earlier by death, resignation or
removal, hold office for a term of three years from the date of
his appointment and shall, unless he has been removed from
office, be eligible for re-appointment.

Remuneration  of
members

79. The  members  of  the  Advisory  Board  may  be  paid
such remuneration out of the Fund of the Authority, at such
rates as may be determined by the Minister in consultation
with the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

Meetings  of
the  Advisory
Board

80.    (1)  The  Chairman  of  the  Advisory  Board  shall,  if
present, preside at every meeting of the Advisory Board.  In
the  absence  of  the  Chairman  from  any  such  meeting,  the
members present shall elect one of the members present, to
preside at such meeting.

(2)  The quorum for any meeting of the Advisory Board

shall be three members.

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

67

(3)  The Chairman or the member presiding at any meeting
of the Advisory Board may regulate the procedure in regard
to  its  meetings  and  the  transaction  of  business  at  such
meetings.

(4)  All matters for decision by the Advisory Board shall
be dealt with at a meeting of the Advisory Board and shall
be determined by the majority of the members present and
voting.

(5)  In  the  event  of  an  equality  of  votes  on  any  matter
considered at a meeting of the Advisory Board, the Chairman
or the member presiding at such meeting shall have a casting
vote in addition to his original vote.

(6)  Subject  to  the  preceding  provisions  of  this  section,
the  Advisory  Board  may  regulate  the  procedure  in  regard
to  its  meetings  and  the  transaction  of  business  at  such
meetings.

81. No act, decision or proceeding of the Advisory Board
shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence
of any vacancy therein, or any defect in the appointment of
any member thereof.

Any  act  not
invalidated  by
reason  of  a
vacancy  in  the
Advisory  Board

PART    X

TESTIMONY THROUGH CONTEMPORANEOUS AUDIO-VISUAL LINKAGE

82. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other  written  law,  any  victim  of  crime,  witness  or  law
enforcement authority who wishes to-

Contemporaneous
audio-visual
linkage

(a) give  evidence;

(b) obtain evidence; or

68

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(c)

 make a statement,

as the case may be, in relation to any investigation, inquiry
or proceedings conducted by any court or Commission, may
make an application to such court or Commission to give or
obtain  such  evidence  or  make  such  statement  through
contemporaneous  audio-visual  linkage  from  a  remote
location within or outside Sri Lanka.

 (2) (a) Upon receipt of an application under subsection
(1), the court or Commission may, in the best interests of
justice and as a measure of protection to be  afforded to a
victim of crime or witness, and subject to the provisions of
sections 84 and 85,  permit such victim of crime, witness or
law enforcement authority to give or obtain such evidence
or  make  such  statement,  as  the  case  may  be,  by  using
contemporaneous audio-visual linkage between such court
or  Commission  and  a  specified  remote  location  within  or
outside  Sri  Lanka  (in  this  Act  referred  to  as  a  “remote
location”) as deemed appropriate.

(b) Where an application is made under subsection (1), it
shall be competent for the court or Commission to hold or
authorise  the  holding  of  an  identification  parade  under
section 124 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act through
contemporaneous  audio-visual  linkage  from  a  remote
location.

(3)  The  court  or  Commission  may,  on  its  own  motion
based  on  the  attendant  circumstances,  obtain  and  record
any evidence or statement of any victim of crime or witness
through contemporaneous audio-visual linkage between the
court or Commission and such remote location as may be
determined  by  such  court  or  Commission,  subject  to  the
provisions of sections 84 and 85.

(4)  Where the court or Commission grants permission to
give or obtain any evidence or make any statement, or decides
to  obtain  and  record  any  evidence  or  statement  under

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

69

subsection (2) or (3), as the case may be, the Authority shall,
at the request of such court or Commission, to the greatest
extent  possible,  ensure  provision  of  financial  and  other
resources that may be necessary to establish and maintain
an  effective  linkage,  subject  to  the  availability  of  its
resources.

83. (1) (a) Where a victim of crime or witness intends to
make an application under subsection (1) of section 82 to
give evidence or make a statement through contemporaneous
audio-visual linkage from-

Supporting  an
application  and
giving  notice  of
an  application

(i)

(ii)

a remote location within Sri Lanka, such application
shall be supported before the court or Commission
at least thirty days before such evidence or statement
is required to be given or made, as the case may be;

a  remote  location  outside  Sri  Lanka,  such
application shall be supported before the court or
Commission at least sixty days before such evidence
or statement is required to be given or made, as the
case may be.

(b) Where a law enforcement authority intends to make
an application under subsection (1) of section 82, such law
enforcement authority shall, before making the application
to the relevant court or Commission, make an application to
the  Magistrate’s  Court  having  jurisdiction  for  permission
for such purpose.

(2)  Where any victim of crime, witness or law enforcement
authority intends to make an application under subsection
(1)  of  section  82,  such  victim  of  crime,  witness  or  law
enforcement authority shall, before making such application,
give  reasonable  prior  notice  of  such  application  to  the
Attorney-General  and  all  relevant  parties  to  such
investigation,  inquiry  or  proceedings:

70

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

Provided  however,  if,  during  the  course  of  an
investigation conducted in terms of Chapter XI of the Code
of  Criminal  Procedure  Act,  an  accused  has  not  yet  been
identified  or  named,  or  an  accused  cannot  be  found  or
absconding,  or  if  it  is  necessary  to  maintain  the
confidentiality of the investigation, a statement of a victim
of crime or witness may be recorded by any law enfacement
authority  without  giving  notice  to  any  party,  with  the
permission of the court or Commission. Where the accused
is identified, named, found or arrested, such law enforcement
authority shall disclose the availability of such statement to
the accused and provide a transcript of such statement or a
data storage device containing such statement to him prior
to the commencement of the trial.

(3)  The Attorney-General or any party who receives notice
of  an application referred to in subsection (2), may make his
representations  to  the  court  or  Commission  before  which
the investigation, inquiry or proceeding is to be conducted,
within fifteen working days of the receipt of the notice of
such application, and such court or Commission shall make
and notify its decision on such representations along with
the  reasons  therefor,  within  fifteen  working  days  of  the
receipt of such representations.

(4)  Where any victim of crime, witness or law enforcement
authority  no  longer  requires  to  give,  obtain  or  make  such
evidence  or  statement,  as  the  case  may  be,  through
contemporaneous  audio-visual  linkage  from  a  remote
location, such victim of crime, witness or law enforcement
authority shall notify such fact in writing to the Registrar or
the Secretary, as the case may be, of the respective court or
Commission.

Court  or
Commission  to
be  satisfied  with
technical  and
other
requirements

84. A court or Commission may permit to give or obtain
any evidence or make any statement, or obtain and record
any evidence or statement through contemporaneous audio-
visual linkage from a remote location, only if it is satisfied
that the technical requirements specified below are met: -

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

71

(a)

the premises in which the court or Commission sits
and the remote location are equipped with adequate
facilities that-

(i)

(ii)

enable the persons who are directly relevant
to  the  proceedings  and  present  at  such
premises, to see and hear the persons who are
directly  relevant  to  the  proceedings  and
present at such remote location; and

enable the persons who are directly relevant
to the proceedings and present at such remote
location, to see and hear the persons who are
directly  relevant  to  the  proceedings  and
present at such premises;

(b)

any requirement that may be prescribed by rules of
the court or Commission, for or with respect to -

(i)

the form of audio-visual linkage;

(ii)

the equipment or class of equipment used to
establish  the  linkage;

(iii)

the layout of cameras;

(iv)

the standard or speed of transmission;

(v)

the quality of communication; and

(vi) any other matter relating to the linkage; and

(c)

any  other  requirement  that  the  presiding  judge,
Magistrate, or Commission may deem necessary:

Provided however, the requirements that may
be imposed by the presiding judge, Magistrate or
Commission  under  this  paragraph  shall  not  be
inconsistent  with  any  provision  contained  in  this
section.

72

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

Court  or
Commission  to
satisfy  itself  of
accuracy  of  the
linkage,  &c.

85. (1) A court or Commission, prior to commencing the
recording of evidence or statement of a victim of crime or
witness through contemporaneous audio-visual linkage from
any remote location, shall, on the day and at the time fixed
for such purpose-

(a)

(b)

satisfy  itself  that  such  contemporaneous  audio-
visual linkage is technically accurate and reliable;
and

ensure that a judicial officer or public officer who
shall be designated by such court or Commission is
present at such remote location.

(2)  The court or Commission may require the judicial
officer or public officer designated under paragraph (b) of
subsection (1) to-

(a)

(b)

interview,  before  or  after  recording  of  statement,
the victim of crime or witness and any other person
directly relevant to the proceedings and present at
such remote location; and

submit a report along with his observations, to such
court or Commission stating whether the victim of
crime  or  witness  is  or  was  making  the  statement
voluntarily  and  without  any  coercion,  duress  or
influence or as a result of any reward or gratification,

and such officer shall comply with such requirement.

(3)  For  the  purposes  of  this  section,  “public  officer”
includes an officer serving in the Sri Lanka Foreign Service.

An  accused’s
right  to  a  fair
trial

86. A  court  or  Commission  shall,  before  granting
permission to a victim of crime, witness or law enforcement
authority, to give or obtain evidence, or to make a statement,
as the case may be, through contemporaneous audio-visual

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

73

linkage  from  a  remote  location  under  this  Act,  determine
whether  the  obtaining  and  recording  of  such  evidence  or
statement through such means from such location-

(a)

serves the best interests of justice; and

(b) would not be detrimental to the right of an accused

to a fair trial.

87.  Where any evidence or statement of any victim of
crime or witness is to be given or obtained or made from any
remote location outside Sri Lanka under this Act, it shall be
so  given  or  obtained  or  made  through  contemporaneous
audio-visual linkage from the Sri Lankan diplomatic mission
in the country from where such evidence or statement is to
be given or obtained or made.

88.   The court or Commission may, in the best interest of
justice and for reasons to be recorded, make an order varying
or  revoking  a  permission  granted  to  record  evidence  or
statement  in  relation  to  any  proceedings  through
contemporaneous  audio-visual  linkage  from  a  remote
location,  with  notice  to  the  relevant  parties  to  such
proceedings.

Sri  Lankan
diplomatic
mission  to  be  the
remote  location
outside      Sri
Lanka

Order  to  vary  or
revoke
permission  for
audio-visual
linkage

 89. (1) A victim of crime or witness giving evidence or
making a statement through contemporaneous audio-visual
linkage from a remote location under this Part of this Act
shall be deemed for all purposes to be a victim of crime or
witness giving evidence or making a statement before the
court.

A  witness
deemed  to  be  a
witness  of  the
court

(2)  For the purposes of this Part of this Act, “court” means
a  court  before  which  any  criminal  proceedings  are  being
conducted.

74

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

PART  XI

FINANCE

Fund  of  the
Authority

90. (1) The Authority shall have its own Fund.

(2)  There shall be paid into the Fund of the Authority-

(a)

(b)

all such sums of money as may be voted upon from
time  to  time  by  Parliament  for  the  use  of  the
Authority;  and

all such sums of money as may be received by the
Authority by way of gifts, donations, contributions,
bequests or grants from any source within or outside
Sri Lanka.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority
all such sums of money required to defray the expenditure
incurred by the Authority in the exercise, performance and
discharge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

Protection  Fund

91. (1) There shall be a fund called the Victims of Crime
and Witnesses Assistance and Protection Fund (in this Act
referred to as the “Protection Fund”).

(2)    The  Protection  Fund  shall  be  administered  and

managed by the Authority.

(3)  There shall be paid into the Protection Fund –

(a)

(b)

all such sums of money as may be voted upon from
time to time by Parliament for such Protection Fund;

all such sums of money as may be received by the
Authority to be remitted to the Protection Fund by
way of gifts, donations, contributions, bequests or
grants from any source within or outside Sri Lanka;
and

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

75

(c)

all such sums of money remitted by a court under
subsection (1) of section 65.

(4)    There  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  Protection  Fund  all
such sums of money as may be determined by the Authority
for the payment of -

(a)

(b)

(c)

compensation  to  victims  of  crime  for  any  injury
caused to them;

interim awards of money granted to victims of crime
under section 70; and

compensation  to  dependent  family  members,
dependent  next  of  kin  and  any  other  person
dependent  on  a  victim  of  crime  who  has  died  or
been physically or mentally incapacitated as a result
of being a victim of crime.

(5)  The Director-General shall be the principal accounting
officer of the Protection Fund and shall cause proper books
of accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure and
assets and liabilities of the Protection Fund.

92. (1) The financial year of the Authority shall be the

calendar year.

Financial  year
and  audit  of
accounts

(2)  The Board shall cause proper books of accounts to be
kept  of  the  income,  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities  and
all other financial transactions of the Authority.

(3)  The  provisions  of  Article  154  of  the  Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to and in relation to the audit of the accounts of
the Fund of the Authority and the Protection Fund.

(4) The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of
1971 shall, mutatis  mutandis  apply to the  financial  control
and  accounts  of  the Fund of the Authority and the Protection
Fund.

76

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

PART   XII

GENERAL

Annual  report

93. (1) The Authority shall, within six months of the end
of  each  financial  year,  submit  to  the  Minister  an  annual
report of the activities carried out by the Authority during
that financial year and cause a copy of each of the following
documents  relating  to  that  year  to  be  attached  to  the
report:-

(a)

(b)

the audited accounts of the Authority for the year
along with the Auditor-General’s report; and

a  report  of  proposed  activities  for  the  year
immediately following the year to which such report
and  accounts  relate,  including  proposals  for
necessary policy and legislative reforms.

(2)  The  Minister  shall  lay  copies  of  the  report  and
documents  submitted  under  subsection  (1)  before
Parliament,  within  two  months  from  the  date  of  receipt
thereof.

94.  Any    person    who,    without    lawful      authority,
interferes  or  obstructs  or  attempts  to  interfere  or  obstruct
any  court,  Commission,  the Authority,  Board, Protection
Division, Advisory Board, law enforcement authority or  any
public  or  judicial  officer,  in  the  exercise,  performance   or
discharge  of  any  power,  duty  or  function  under  this   Act,
commits  an  offence under this Act and  shall,  on  conviction
by  the  High Court, be liable to a fine not exceeding three
hundred  thousand  rupees  or  to  imprisonment  of  either
description for a period not exceeding five years or to both
such fine and imprisonment.

Interference  in
the  exercise  of
powers,  &c.

Offences  by  a
body  of  persons

95. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a

body of persons, then, if that body of persons is—

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

77

a  body  corporate,  then  every  person  who,  at  the
time of the commission of the offence, was a director,
manager, officer or servant of such body corporate;

a firm, then every person who was a partner of that
firm and its chief executive officer, at the time of
the commission of the offence;

an unincorporated body other than a firm, then every
individual  who  was  a  member  of  such  body  and
every  officer  who  was  responsible  for  the
management and control of such body, at the time
of the commission of the offence; or

a local authority or any other authority appointed
by or under any law relating to a local authority to
act  on  behalf  of  such  local  authority,  then  the
person who was the Chairman of such authority, at
the time of the commission of the offence,

shall be deemed to have committed that offence, unless such
person, individual, officer or Chairman, as the case may be,
proves to the satisfaction of the court that the offence was
committed  without  his  knowledge  or  that  such  person
exercised  all  due  diligence  to  prevent  the  commission  of
that offence.

96. (1) No person shall, in any proceedings, be compelled
to divulge whether a victim of crime or witness is receiving
or has received assistance or protection under this Act, unless
it becomes necessary for the purpose of giving effect to the
provisions of this Act or any other written law.

Secrecy

(2)  No  person  shall,  otherwise  than  for  the  purpose  of
giving effect to the provisions of this Act or in compliance
with the provisions of any other written law, divulge to any
other person whether a victim of crime or witness is receiving
or has received assistance or protection under this Act.

78

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

Assessment  of
credibility  of  a
testimony

97. In assessing the credibility of a testimony given by a
victim of crime or witness in any court or Commission, the
fact  that  a  victim  of  crime  or  witness  is  receiving  or  has
received any assistance or protection under this Act, shall
not be relevant.

Officers  and
other  employees
of  the  Authority
deemed  to  be
public  servants

98. The Members of the Board, the Director-General and
all  other  officers  and  employees  of  the  Authority,  and
consultants  and  advisors  appointed  by  the  Authority  shall
be deemed to be public servants within the meaning and for
the purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19) and of the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act.

Officers  of  the
Authority  to  be
peace  officers

99. Every officer of or above the rank of Assistant Director
of the Authority shall be a peace officer for the purposes of
the Code of Criminal Procedure Act.

Authority
deemed  to  be  a
Scheduled
Institution
within  the
meaning  of  the
Anti-Corruption
Act

Rules

100. The Authority shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
Institution  within  the  meaning  of  the  Anti-Corruption
Act, No. 9 of 2023, and the provisions of that Act shall be
construed  accordingly.

101. (1)  The  Authority  may  make  rules  in  respect  of
matters for which rules are required to be made under this
Act including the following matters: -

(a)

(b)

terms and conditions of employment, remuneration
and  disciplinary  control  of  officers  and  other
employees of the Authority, and welfare and social
security schemes for such officers and employees
under section 52; and

ensuring  the  confidentiality  of  the  affairs  of  the
Protection  Division  and  impartiality  and
accountability of the police officers of the Protection
Division under section 54.

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

79

(2)  Every rule made by the Authority under subsection
(1) shall, as soon as may be practicable, be published in the
Gazette.

102. (1) The Minister may make regulations under this
Act in respect of all matters which are required by this Act to
be  prescribed  or  in  respect  of  which  regulations  are
authorised to be made under this Act.

Regulations

(2)  Every  regulation  made  by  the  Minister  shall  be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication, or on such later date as may be
specified therein.

(3) (a) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, within
three months after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval.

(b)  Any  regulation  which  is  not  so  approved  shall  be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such disapproval,
but  without  prejudice  to  anything  previously  done
thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by  the  Minister  is  deemed  to  be  so  rescinded  shall  be
published in the Gazette.

 103. (1) The Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 4 of 2015 is hereby repealed.

Repeal  and
savings

(2)    Notwithstanding the repeal of the Assistance to and
Protection of Victims of Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 4 of
2015 (in this section referred to as the “repealed Act”)-

(a)

every  appointed  member  of  the  Board  of
Management  of  the  National  Authority  for  the
Protection  of  Victims  of  Crime  and  Witnesses
established under the repealed Act holding office
on  the  day  immediately  preceding  the  appointed

80

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(b)

(c)

(d)

date shall, with effect from the appointed date, be
deemed to be a member of the Board of Management
of  the  Authority  established  under  this  Act  and
shall, unless he earlier resigns, dies or removed from
office,  continue to hold office as such member until
the expiration of his term of office for which he has
been  appointed;

all employees who were in the employment of the
National Authority for the Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses established under the repealed
Act  on  the  day  immediately  preceding  the
appointed date shall, with effect from the appointed
date, be deemed to be employees of the Authority
established under this Act;

all suits, prosecutions, actions, proceedings, matters
or things which have been instituted by or against
the National Authority for the Protection of Victims
of  Crime  and  Witnesses  established  under  the
repealed  Act  and  which  are  pending  on  the  day
immediately  preceding  the  appointed  date  shall,
with effect from the appointed date, be deemed to
be suits, prosecutions, actions, proceedings, matters
or things which have been instituted by or against
the Authority established under this Act;

any decree, order or award entered or made in favour
of  or  against  the  National  Authority  for  the
Protection  of  Victims  of  Crime  and  Witnesses
established under the repealed Act by any court or
tribunal  or  other  body  in  any  action,  matter,
proceeding  or  thing  shall,  with  effect  from  the
appointed date, be deemed to be a decree, order or
award entered or made in favour of or against the
Authority  established  under  this  Act  and  may  be
enforced  accordingly;

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

81

all property movable or immovable, belonging to
the National Authority for the Protection of Victims
of  Crime  and  Witnesses  established  under  the
repealed Act on the day immediately preceding the
appointed date shall, with effect from the appointed
date, vest in and be deemed to be the property of
the Authority established under this Act;

all monies lying to the credit of the Victims of Crime
and  Witnesses  Assistance  and  Protection  Fund
established  under  the  repealed  Act  on  the  day
immediately  preceding  the  appointed  date,  shall,
with effect from the appointed date, stand transferred
to the Protection Fund established under this Act;

all  monies  lying  to  the  credit  of  the  Fund  of  the
National Authority for the Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses established under the repealed
Act  on  the  day  immediately  preceding  the
appointed date, shall, with effect from the appointed
date, stand transferred to the Fund of the Authority
established under this Act;

all  contracts  and  agreements  entered  into  by  and
with  the  National  Authority  for  the  Protection  of
Victims of Crime and Witnesses established under
the  repealed  Act  and  subsisting  on  the  day
immediately  preceding  the  appointed  date,  shall
be deemed to be contracts and agreements entered
into  by  and  with  the  Authority  established  under
this Act; and

all debts, obligations and liabilities of the National
Authority for the Protection of Victims of Crime
and Witnesses established under the repealed Act
and  subsisting  on  the  day  immediately  preceding
the  appointed  date  shall,  with  effect  from  the
appointed date, be deemed to be debts, obligations
and  liabilities  of  the  Authority  established  under
this Act.

82

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

Interpretation

104. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires–

“child victim of crime” and “child witness” respectively
mean, a person who is less than eighteen years of
age  and  who  is  either  a  victim  of  crime  or  is  a
witness;

“Code  of  Criminal  Procedure  Act”  means  the  Code  of

Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979;

“Commission” includes-

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

a Commission of Inquiry appointed under the
Commissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393);

a Special Presidential Commission of Inquiry
established  under  the  Special  Presidential
Commissions of Inquiry Law, No. 7 of 1978;

the Commission to Investigate Allegations of
Bribery or Corruption established by the Anti-
Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023;

the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka
established by the Human Rights Commission
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 21 of 1996; and

(e)

any other Commission empowered by law to
conduct  inquiries;

“ICCPR Act” means the International Covenant on Civil

and Political Rights Act, No. 56 of 2007;

“injury”  means  any  harm  whatever  illegally  caused  to
the body, mind, reputation or property of any person
and  includes  any  impairment  or  disability,
emotional suffering, economic or other loss caused
as  a  result  of  an  act  or  omission  constituting  an
alleged-

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

83

(a) offence under any law;

(b)

infringement  of  any  fundamental  right
guaranteed under Article 11 or paragraph (1)
or (2) of Article 13 of the Constitution; or

(c) violation  of  any  right  granted  under  the

ICCPR Act;

“law  enforcement  authority”  means  a  police  officer  or
any other person authorised by or under any written
law  to  investigate  into  the  commission  of  an
offence;

“Minister”  means  the  Minister  assigned  the  subject  of

Justice;

“organised  criminal  group”  means  a  group  of  persons
who have organised themselves to commit crime;

“public  authority”  means  any  authority,  corporation,
board  or  other  body  established  by  or  under  any
written law other than the Companies Act, No. 07
of  2007  with  funds  or  capital  wholly  or  partially
provided by the Government by way of grant, loan
or otherwise;

“relevant authority” means a law enforcement authority
or  public  authority  which  lawfully  interacts  with
the  victim  of  crime  or  witness  depending  on  the
circumstances of each case;

“restorative justice” means the evolvement of a procedure
through  which  all  parties  to  a  dispute  would  be
engaged in a conciliatory process for the purpose
of achieving the goals of justice;

84

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

“victim of crime” means a person who has suffered any

injury and includes, where appropriate-

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

a member of the family of the victim of crime
or a dependent of the victim of crime;

a person of significant importance to a victim
of crime;

a person who suffers injury in intervening to
assist a victim of crime;

a  person  who  suffers  injury  in  preventing
another person from victimization; and

(e)

a child victim of crime; and

“witness” means any person who-

(a) has  provided  any  information  or  lodged  a
complaint  with  any  law  enforcement
authority  and  based  upon  such  information
or  complaint,  an  investigation  or  inquiry  is
likely  to  commence  or  has  commenced,  in
connection  with  the  alleged  commission  of
an  offence  or  infringement  of  any
fundamental  right  or  violation  of  any  right
granted under the ICCPR Act;

(b) has  provided  any  information  or  made  a
statement in the course of an investigation or
inquiry  conducted  by  a  law  enforcement
authority into the alleged commission of an
offence or infringement of any fundamental
right or violation of any right granted under
the ICCPR Act;

(c) has made a statement, submitted an affidavit
or  has  testified,  in  relation  to  a  complaint
made  by  a  victim  of  crime  or  in  any  legal
action instituted by, or on behalf, of a victim
of crime;

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

85

(d) has  provided  any 

information  or
communication  to  a  Commission  or  has
given evidence before a Commission;

(e) has reasonable grounds to believe that he may
be summoned by a court or Commission to
participate in any manner in any proceedings,
investigation  or  inquiry  against  any  other
person based on any information provided or
a  statement  made  to  a  law  enforcement
authority, court or Commission, or based on
a deposition or an affidavit submitted by him;

(f) has  received  summons  from  a  court  or
Commission to make a statement, submit an
affidavit,  testify  or  produce  any  document,
report or object relating to any proceedings
before such court or Commission; or

(g) being a public officer, has been involved in
any  manner  in  the  administration  of  justice
in  relation  to  the  alleged  commission  of  an
offence or infringement of any fundamental
right or violation of any right granted under
the ICCPR Act,

and  includes-

(i)

a victim of crime;

(ii)

a child witness;

(iii)

a parent or guardian of a child witness;

(iv)

a family member or a dependent, of such
witness;

(v)

any  other  person  of  significant
importance to any witness;

86

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(vi)

an expert witness; and

(vii)

any person who has been summoned to
testify  before  a  court  or  Commission
on  behalf  of  a  person  suspected  or
accused of the alleged commission of
an  offence  or  infringement  of  any
fundamental  right  or  violation  of  any
right granted under the ICCPR Act.

Sinhala  text  to
prevail  in  case
of  inconsistency

105. In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

FIRST SCHEDULE

(section  10)

PROCEDURE APPLICABLE FOR THE INVESTIGATION AND INQUIRY OF COMPLAINTS ON
VIOLATION OR DENIAL OF RIGHTS OR ENTITLEMENTS

1.

(1)  Every  complaint  received  by  the  Authority  under  section

10  of  this  Act  shall  be  categorized  as  follows:  -

(a)

(b)

complaints  regarding  the  violation  or  denial,  or  imminent
violation  or  denial,  of  any  right  or  entitlement  of  a  victim
of  crime  or  witness  under  this  Act  which  shall  be  dealt  with
by  the  Authority;

complaints  regarding  the  commission  of  an  offence  under
this  Act  which  shall  be  referred  to  the  Protection  Division;
and

(c) matters  on  which  no  action  is  required  to  be  taken  in  terms

of  this  Act.

(2)  Any  decision  under  sub-paragraph  (1)(c)  shall  be  taken  with
the  approval  of  the  Director  (Legal)  of  the  Authority  (in  this  Schedule
referred  to  as  the  “Director  (Legal”),  who  shall  be  appointed  by  the
Authority.

(3)  The  Authority  shall  formulate  a  procedure  for  dealing  with
complaints  within  a  specified  time  period,  and  such  procedure  shall
be  published  in  the  Gazette.

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

87

2.    An  investigation  or  inquiry  into  any  complaint  referred  to  in
paragraph  1(1)(a)  of  this  Schedule  shall  be  carried  out  by  an  officer
of  the  Authority  who  shall  be  nominated  by  the  Director  (Legal).

3. The  officer  referred  to  in  paragraph  2  of  this  Schedule  shall
have  the  powers  set  out  in  paragraph  (b)  of  subsection  (1)  of  section
41  of  this  Act.

4.

(1)  The  officer  carrying  out  the  investigation  or  inquiry  shall
take  notes  of  the  investigation  or  inquiry  in  writing  and  shall  arrive  at
a  finding  within  a  period  of  four  weeks  whether-

(a)

the  evidence  discloses  a  violation  or  denial,  or  imminent
violation  or  denial,  of  any  right  or  entitlement  of  the  victim
of  crime  or  witness;  or

(b)

the  evidence  is  not  sufficient  to  substantiate  the  complaint.

(2)    Where  the  investigation  or  inquiry  cannot  be  concluded  within
a  period  of  four  weeks,  such  officer  shall  obtain  permission  from  the
Director  (Legal)  for  an  extension  of  time.

5.  (1)  Where  the  officer  carrying  out  the  investigation  or  inquiry
arrives at a finding that there has been a violation or denial, or imminent
violation  or  denial,  of  any  right  or  entitlement  of  a  victim  of  crime  or
witness,  he  shall  submit  a  report  to  the  Director  (Legal)  with  his
recommendations  along  with  any  material  used  during  the  course  of
the  investigation  or  inquiry  and  the  notes  of  evidence.

(2)    Where  such  officer  arrives  at  a  finding  that  the  evidence  is
insufficient  to  proceed  with  the  investigation  or  inquiry,  he  shall  stop
the  investigation  or  inquiry  with  the  approval  of  the  Director  (Legal)
and  the  Director-General.

6.  The Director (Legal) shall consider the report of the investigation
or  inquiry  received  by  him  under  paragraph  5  of  this  Schedule  and
direct  the  relevant  persons  to  remedy  or  redress  the  violation  or
denial,  or  imminent  violation  or  denial,  of  the  right  or  entitlement
complained  of  and  such  persons  shall  comply  with  such  direction
within  the  time  specified  in  the  direction.

7.    (1)  Where  the  relevant  matter  cannot  be  resolved  by  way  of
directions  or,  where  the  directions  are  not  complied  with,  the  Director
(Legal)  shall,  in  consultation  with  the  Director-General,  report  such
fact  to  the  Board  and  request  the  Board  to  appoint  a  Panel  to  conduct
an  investigation  or  inquiry  into  the  matter.

(2)  Upon  receipt  of  such  request,  the  Board  shall  appoint,  by
consensus,  a  Panel  consisting  of  three  members  of  the  Board  and
nominate  one  of  the  members  of  the  Panel  to  be  its  Chairman.

88

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

(3)  The  Panel  conducting  an  investigation  or  inquiry  into  an
alleged  violation  or  denial,  or  imminent  violation  or  denial,  of  any
right  or  entitlement  of  a  victim  of  crime  or  witness  shall  have  the
powers  set  out  in  paragraph  (b)  of  subsection  (1)  of  section  41  of  this
Act.

(4)  In  the  case  of  a  division  of  opinion  among  the  members  of  the
Panel  regarding  any  matter  being  investigated  or  inquired  into  by  it,
the  opinion  of  the  majority  of  the  members  shall  prevail.

(5)  At  the  conclusion  of  the  investigation  or  inquiry  under  this
paragraph,  the  Panel  shall  submit  a  report  on  the  same  along  with  its
recommendations,  to  the  Board.

(6)  On  receipt  of  the  report  of  the  Panel,  the  Board  shall  take  such

action  on  the  matter  as  it  shall  deem  fit  and  appropriate.

SECOND  SCHEDULE

(sections  29,  30,  31  and  73)

Offences  in  relation  to  which  protection  to  victims  of  crime  and
witnesses  is  to  be  provided  by  the  Authority  or  Protection  Division

Act

Section

Offence

Penal  Code
(Chapter  19)

296

murder

297

300

316

354

355

356

357

culpable  homicide  not  amounting  to
murder

attempt  to  murder

voluntarily  causing  grievous  hurt

kidnapping

kidnapping  or  abducting  in  order  to
murder

kidnapping  or  abducting  with  intent
secretly  and  wrongfully  to  confine
a  person

kidnapping  or  abducting  a  woman
to  compel  her  marriage,  &c.

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

89

Act

Section

Offence

358

360

kidnapping  or  abducting  in  order  to
subject  a  person  to  grievous  hurt,
slavery,  &c.

kidnapping  or  abducting  a  child  with
intent  to  steal  movable  property
from  the  person  of  such  child

360A

procuration

360B

sexual  exploitation  of  children

360C

trafficking

362A

c o h a b i t a t i o n   c a u s e d   b y   a   m a n
deceitfully  inducing  a  belief  of
lawful  marriage

362B

bigamy

362C

362D

bigamy  with  concealment  of  the
former  marriage

going  through  marriage  ceremony
with  fraudulent  intention  without
lawful  marriage

364

rape

364A

incest

365B

grave  sexual  abuse

373

374

375

376

377

extortion

putting  or  attempting  to  put  a  person
in  fear  of  injury,  in  order  to  commit
extortion

extortion  by  putting  a  person  in  fear
of  death  or  grievous  hurt

putting  or  attempting  to  put  a  person
in  fear  of  death  or  grievous  hurt  in
order  to  commit  extortion

extortion  by  threat  of  accusation  of
an  offence  punishable  with  death  or
imprisonment  for  ten  years

9

1 0

1 1

1 2

1 3

1 4

1 5

1 6

1 7

1 8

1 9

2 0

2 1

2 2

2 3

2 4

2 5

90

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

Act

Section

Offence

2 6

2 7

2 8

2 9

3 0

3 1

3 2

3 3

3 4

3 5

3 6

3 7

3 8

378

380

381

382

383

384

385

418

419

420

421

435

437

putting a person in fear of accusation
of  an  offence  punishable  with  death
or  with  imprisonment  for  ten  years,
in  order  to  commit  extortion

robbery

attempt  to  commit  robbery

voluntarily  causing  hurt  in
committing  or  attempting  to  commit
robbery

robbery,  with  attempt  to  cause  death
or  grievous  hurt

attempt  to  commit  robbery  when
armed  with  deadly  weapon

belonging  to  a  wandering  gang  of
persons  associated  for  the  purpose
of  habitually  committing  theft

mischief  by  fire  or  explosive
substance,  with  intent  to  cause
damage  of  an  amount  of  one
hundred  rupees  or  upwards

mischief  by  fire  or  explosive
substance  with  intent  to  destroy  a
house,  &c.

mischief  with  intent  to  destroy  or
make unsafe a decked vessel or vessel
of  a  burden  of  ten  tons  or  upwards

mischief  referred  to  in  section  420
when  committed  by  fire  or  any
explosive  substance

house-trespass  in  order  to  commit
an  offence  punishable  with  death

house-trespass  in  order  to  commit
an  offence  punishable  with
imprisonment  for  less  than  ten  years

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

91

Act

Section

Offence

3 9

4 0

4 1

4 2

4 3

4 4

4 5

4 6

4 7

4 8

4 9

5 0

Anti-
Corruption
Act,  No.  9
of  2023

438

440

441

444

445

9 3

9 4

9 6

9 7

9 8

9 9

100

house-trespass,  having  made
preparation  for  causing  hurt,  assault,
&c.

lurking  house-trespass  or  house-
breaking  in  order  to  commit  an
offence  punishable  with
imprisonment

lurking  house-trespass  or  house-
breaking  after  preparation  made  for
causing  hurt,  assault,  &c.

lurking  house-trespass  or  house-
breaking  by  night  after  making
preparation  for  causing  hurt,  &c.

grievous  hurt  caused  whilst
committing  lurking  house-trespass
or  house-breaking

bribery  of  Judges  of  the  Supreme
Court,  Court  of  Appeal,  High  Courts,
judicial  officers  and  Members  of
Parliament

acceptance  of  gratification  by
Members  of  Parliament  for
inteviewing  public  officials

bribery  of  police  officers,  peace
officers  and  other  public  officials

bribery  for  giving  assistance  or
using  influence  with  regard  to
contracts

bribery  for  procuring  withdrawal  of
tenders

bribery  in  respect  of  Government
business

bribery  in  commection  with  payment
of  claims,  appointments,
employments,  grants,  leases,  and
other  benefits

92

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

Act

Section

Offence

5 1

5 2

5 3

5 4

5 5

5 6

5 7

5 8

5 9

6 0

6 1

101

102

103

104

108

111

125

54A

bribery  of  public  officers  by  persons
having  dealings  with  the  Government

bribery  of  a  member  of  local
authority,  or  of  a  scheduled
institution,  or  of  a  governing  body
of  a  scheduled  institution,  and
bribery of official of a local authority
or  of  a  scheduled  institution

use  of  threats  or  fraud  to  influence
vote  of  a  member  of  a  local
authority, or of a scheduled institution,
or  of  a  governing  body  of  a
scheduled  institution

trading  in  influence

offences  relating  to  sporting  events

corruption

obstructing  justice

manufacture,  trafficking,
import  or  export  and  possession
of  dangerous  drugs

Poisions,
Opium  and
Dangerous
Drugs
Ordinance
(Chapter  218)

54B

abetting  the  commission  of,  or
attempting  to  commit,  an  offence
under  section  54A

Prevention  of
Terrorism,
(Temporary
Provisions)
Act,  No.  48
of  1979

2

3

causing  death,  &c  of  a  specified
person  or  witness,  criminal
intimidation,  mischief  to  the
Government  property,  &c

abetting,  conspiring,  attempting  or
inciting  to  commit  an  offence  under
the  Act

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

93

Act

Section

Offence

1 2

2 4

contravention  or  breach  of  a
prohibition  or  restriction  order
made  under  section  11  of  the  Act

committing  an  act  constituting  an
offence  under  the  Act  in  relation  to
a  vessel  or  aircraft  registered  in
Sri  Lanka

6 2

6 3

94

Assistance to and Protection of Victims of
Crime and Witnesses Act, No. 10 of 2023

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “PRAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT  OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.

