THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

Part II of June 20, 2024

SUPPLEMENT

(Issued on 26.06.2024)

ASSOCIATION  OF HUMAN  RESOURCES
PROFESSIONALS  (INCORPORATION)

(Private Members’ Bill)

A

BILL

to incorporrate  the Association of Human Resources Professionals

To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Madhura Withanage,
Attorney-at-Law, M. P. for Colombo District

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00

Postage : Rs. 150.00

This  Gazette  Supplement  can  be  downloaded  from  www.documents.gov.lk

Association of Human Resources Professionals
(Incorporation)

1

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ASSOCIATION OF HUMAN

RESOURCES PROFESSIONALS

WHEREAS  a  Association  called  and  known  as  the
“Association  of  Human  Resources  Professionals”  has
heretofore  been  formed  in  Sri  Lanka  for  the  purpose  of
effectually carrying out its objects and transacting all matters
connected with the said Association according to the rules
agreed to by its members:

Preamble

AND  WHEREAS  the  said  Association  has  heretofore
successfully  carried  out  and  transacted  the  several  objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be  incorporated  and  it  will  be  expedient  to  grant  the  said
application:

BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

5

10

1. This Act may be cited as the Association of Human
Resources Professionals (Incorporation) Act,  No.     of  2024.

15

Short  Title

20

2. The  persons  who,  at  the  time  of  the  coming  into
operation  of  this  Act,  are  members  of  the  Association  of
Human resources Professionals (hereinafter referred to as “the
Association”) and such other persons as are hereafter enrolled
as  members  of  the  Association  shall  be  a  body  corporate
(hereinafter referred to as “the corporation”) with perpetual
succession and the common seal under the name and style of
“the Association of Human Resources Professionals”. The
corporation may sue and be sued by that name.

Incorporation
of  the
Association
of  Human
Resources
Professionals

25

3. (1) The general objects for which the Corporation is

constituted shall be:-

General
objects  of  the
Corporation

2

Association of Human Resources Professionals
(Incorporation)

(a)

( b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

to  serve  as  a  source  of  information  for  Human
Resources Professionals to help resolve their work
related problems;

to  serve  as  a  forum  for  Human  Resources
Professionals  to  meet,  fraternize  and  exchange
ideas;

to prepare and publish Journals, Books, Pamphlets
and  Papers  and  to  utilize  any  other  means  of
communication to promote good Human Resources
practices;

to  provide  training  and  development  support  for
Human  Resource  Professionals  by  way  of
organizing and promoting Programs/ Workshops/
Seminars  and  undertaking  Studies  and  Research
Projects  for  the  Government,  Private  Sector.
International Agencies and other Institutions at the
request of the said entities on Human Resources;

to  promote  understanding,  co-operation  and
friendship  with  Human  Resources  Organizations
within and outside Sri Lanka;

to  collaborate  or  form  strategic  alliances  or  any
other mode of co-operation with other organizations,
Financial  Institutions  or  Non-Governmental
Organizations  in  key  areas  of  Human  Resources
Developments and Industrial Relations, within or
outside Sri Lanka;

(g)

to provide growth and development in the area of
human  resources  by  establishing  a  network  for
mutual  assistance,  information  sharing  and
consultations;  and

5

10

15

20

25

30

Association of Human Resources Professionals
(Incorporation)

3

(h)

to  do  all  other  things  incidental  or  conducive  to
the attainment of the above objects or the exercise
of the above powers.

(2)  In  the  implementation  of  the  objects  specified  in
subsection  (1)  the  Corporation  shall  ensure  that  such
implementation  shall  be  carried  out  without  any
discrimination  based  on  race,  religion,  language,  caste,
gender, political opinion, place of birth or any such grounds.

4. The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out in
such  manner  so  as  not  to  create  any  conflict  between  the
work  of  the  Corporation  and  any  work  being  carried  out
simultaneously  by  any  Ministry  or  Department  of  the
Government or any Provincial Council.

 5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act the affairs of
the  Corporation  shall  be  carried    out  by  a  Board  of
Management  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  “the  Board”)
consisting  of  such  number  of  office  bearers  as  may  be
specified by the rules made under section 7.

(2)  (a)  The  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Association  that
holds office on the date immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Board of
the Corporation until the first Board is appointed or elected
in the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.

5

10

15

20

25

  (b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.

(3)  (a)  Every  office  bearer  of  the  Board  including  the
patrons  and  advisors,  shall  be  appointed  or  elected  for  a

Corporation
to  ensure  no
conflict  with
work  of
Ministry  or
Department
of  the  Central
Goverment
or  Provincial
Councils

Management
of  the  Affairs
of  the
Corporation

4

Association of Human Resources Professionals
(Incorporation)

period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or
advisor  shall  be  eligible  for  re-appointment  or  re-election
after lapse of the said period of three years.

5

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,
resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an office
bearer,  the  Board  shall  having  regard  to  the  rules  of  the
Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

10

15

20

25

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)
shall hold office only for the remaining period of the term of
office of the member whom he succeeds.

(4) The Board administering the affairs of the Corporation
shall cause a register of members of the Corporation to be
kept. There shall be inscribed in such register the name of
every person who, at the date of the coming into operation
of this Act, is a member of the Association and the name of
every person who is thereafter duly enrolled as a member of
the Association.

6. Subject to the provision of any other written law and
without prejudice to the generality  of the powers conferred
on the Corporation by this Act, Corporation shall have the
power  to do, perform and execute all such acts and matters
as necessary or desirable for the purpose of achieving the
objects of the Corporation, including the power -

Powers  of  the
Corporation

(a)

to purchase, acquire rent, construct, renovate and
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may be
required for the purpose of the Corporation and to
deal with or dispose of the same as may be deemed
expedient with a view to promoting the objects of
the  Corporation.

30

(b)

to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations,
in cash or kind:

Association of Human Resources Professionals
(Incorporation)

5

Provided  that,  the  Board  shall  obtain  the  prior
written  approval  of  all  the  relevant  Government
Ministries and Departments as may become relevant
time to time including the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the  subject  of  Finance,  in  respect  of  all  foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;

to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy  sell  and  issue  bills  of  exchange,  cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and  to  open,  operate  and  close  accounts  in  any
banks;

to  invest  any  funds  not  immediately  required  for
the purposes of the Corporation in such manner as
the Board may determine;

to  undertake,  accept,  execute,  perform  and
administer any lawful trust for any land or personal
property  with  a  view  to  promoting  the  objects  of
the  Corporation;

(c)

(d)

(e)

5

10

15

20

(f)

to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of  employees  of  the  Corporation  and  exercise
disciplinary control over them and to pay them such
salaries,  allowances  and  gratuities  as  may  be
determined by the Corporation; and

25

(g)

 to do all other things as are necessary or expedient
for  the  proper  and  effective  carrying  out  of  the
objects of the Corporation.

30

7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time,  at  any  general  meeting  and  by  the  votes  of  not  less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:-

Rules  of  the
Corporation

6

Association of Human Resources Professionals
(Incorporation)

5

10

15

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

the  classification  of  membership,  admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by members;

the  election  of  office  bearers  of  the  Board  or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;

the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties of the various officers , agents
and servants of the Corporation;

the  procedure  to  be  followed  at  the  summoning
and  holding  of  meetings  of  the  Board,  or  any
sub-committee thereof, notices and agenda of such
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business
thereat;

the  qualification  and  disqualification  to  be  a
member of the Board and the Corporation;

the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and

20

(g)

the management of the affairs of the Corporation,
the accomplishment of its objects and dissolution
of the Corporation.

(2) The rules of the Corporation may be amended, altered,
added to or rescinded in a like manner as a rule made under
subsection(1).

25

(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to

rules of the Corporation.

(4) The rules made under this section shall be published

in the Government Gazette.

Association of Human Resources Professionals
(Incorporation)

7

8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.

Fund  of  the
Corporation

(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,
subscription, contribution, fees or grants for an account of
the  Corporation  shall  be  deposited  in  one  or  more  Banks
approved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.

5

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money
as  are  required  to  defray  any  expenditure  incurred  by  the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its power, duties and functions under the Act.

10

9. (1)  The  financial  year  of  the  Corporation  shall  be

the calendar year.

Accounts  and
the  Auditing

(2)  The  Corporation  shall  cause  proper  accounts  to  be
kept  of  income  and  expenditure,  assets  and  liabilities  and
all other transactions of the Corporation.

15

(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor appointed by Auditor General in terms of
Article 154 of the Constitution.

(4)  For  the  purpose  of  this  section  “qualified  auditor”

means -

20

(a)

an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as Accountant issued by the Council of
such Institute; or

25

(b)

30

a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners,
of  which  being  a  member  of  the  Institute  of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law possesses a certificate
to practice as Accountant issued by the Council of
such Institute.

8

Association of Human Resources Professionals
(Incorporation)

Annual
Report

10. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the Corporation for each financial year and submit such
report  together  with  the  audited  statement  of  accounts  to
the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the
subject of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary
Social Service Organizations appointed under the Voluntary
Social Service Organizations (registration and Supervision)
Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of
the year succeeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and local
moneys  received  by  the  Corporation  during  the  financial
year  shall  be  attached  to  the  report  referred  to  in
subsection (1).

11. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts  due  to,  and  subscriptions  and  contributions  payable
to  the  Association  on  that  day  shall  be  paid  to  the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act.

Debts  due  by
and  payable
to  the
Association

Corporation
may  hold
property
movable  and
immovable

12.  On  the  coming  into  operation  of  this  Act,  all  and
every  property  movable  and  immovable  belonging  to  the
Association,  whether  held  in  the  name  of  the  said
Association, or in the name or names of any persons in trust
for the said Association, shall be and the same are hereby
vested in the Corporation hereby constituted, and the same
together with all property acquired thereafter, both movable
and immovable, by way of purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise and all subscriptions, contributions,
donations  received,  shall  be  held  by  the  said  Corporation
and the Corporation will have the power to sell, mortgage,
lease,  exchange  or  otherwise  dispose  of  the  same  for  the
purpose  of  this  Act  and  subject  to  the  rules  for  the  time
being in force of the said Corporation.

5

10

15

20

25

30

Association of Human Resources Professionals
(Incorporation)

9

13. The moneys and property of the Corporation however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the
objects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall be
paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,
bonus or profit to the members of the Corporation.

Application
of  money
and  Property

14. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any  instrument  whatsoever,  except  in  the  presence  of  two
members  of  the  Board  who  shall  sign  their  names  to  the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Seal  of  the
Corporation

(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
an  office  bearer  of  the  Board  as  may  be  decided  by  such
Board.

15. (1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its  debts and liabilities,
any  property  whatsoever,  such  property  shall  not  be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution having objects
similar to those of the Corporation, and which is by the rules
thereof, prohibited from distributing any income or property
among its members.

Property
remaining  on
dissolution

5

10

15

20

(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate
institution  shall  be  determined  by  the  members  of  the
Corporation immediately before the dissolution at a general
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

25

16. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or corporate
or any other persons, except such as are mentioned in this
Act, and those claiming by, from, or under them.

Saving  of  the
Rights  of  the
Republic  and
Others

10

Association of Human Resources Professionals
(Incorporation)

17.  In  the  event  of  any  inconsistency  between  the
Sinhala and Tamil Text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala  text
to  Prevail  in
case  of
inconsisteney

Association of Human Resources Professionals
(Incorporation)

11

Department  of  Government  Printing

